June 2015 

SATURDAY, JUNE 13, 2015 AT 12:00 PM 


A busy day today. I'm actually writing this tomorrow, on Sunday 
because I was too tired last night. I also just downloaded this app 
this morning. I hope I can use it to journal nightly. Maybe I can also 
have it ask me if I prayed and what I learned in scripture study. I'll 
figure that out later though. Anyway, today was quite busy, as I had 
to finish packing for Solana Beach, unpack my missionary stuff, try to 
forward my emails, and the fly to San Diego. But who said post-
mission life would be a vacation? At least I'm chipping away at my 
to-do list from 14 to 7 items. This whole Comcast email thing not 
working is quite a hassle. However, I have forwarded some of my 
mission emails and I finished a draft of my talk on the plane. Now I 
just have to write my other talk, get my thoughts together for the 
Blake family testimony meeting, prepare my third hour lesson for the 
28th, and eventually have something cogent to say when I report to 
the high council on the 16th. So, there will be much pontification by 
me in the coming days. Anyway, each night I want to report on what 
I learned in scripture study, so today I was impressed that my 
personal righteousness can reduce the power of Satan both 
personally and in the whole world. This contrasts with the results 
when we follow the natural man and Satan binds us. So, that's the 
day in a nutshell. Breakfast time. 

535 S HIGHWAY 101, SOLANA BEACH, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JUNE 14, 2015 AT 6:01 PM 

As a return missionary, I should be mindful of my goals to have daily 
significant prayer, daily scripture study, and frequent service, to 
name a few. 
I need to continue to share the gospel. Once I'm stable in Ann Arbor 
I can contact the missionaries to go out with them. I should also 
contact those nonmembers and less-actives on my mission email list 
to follow-up with them on their impressions of my letters and act on 
missionary opportunities derived there. Of course, nothing happens 
in missionary work until I find people to teach, so I should reach out 
and make new friends with whom I can share the gospel. 
There is much media I can now consume. Much of it is good and 
wholesome. Enjoy it, but don't waste your time. Some media I will 
be exposed to or things I will see will be inappropriate. Put the 
blinders on and think about something spiritually uplifting. 
Always show how much I love my family even when they annoy me. I 
missed them far too much on my mission to let the small stuff bother 
me. 

535 S HIGHWAY 101, SOLANA BEACH, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JUNE 14, 2015 AT 10:54 PM 


Busy day today. I'm copying in some of my family journal entry from 
Evernote and will add some additional color. 

This morning, we had the Blake family testimony meeting and I was 
asked to be the prime speaker. (That's the disadvantage of traveling 
right after your mission, everyone asks you to speak and tell your 
mission stories. I need to record all of them, so when they ask me I 
can just tell them to listen to that instead. It would save much time 
and energy.) However, the testimony meeting did have a good spirit 
and I was able to tell the aforementioned “Waiting at the Gate” 
story, as well as Claudia and Ana's “warm feeling” experience. 

I also finished typing my talk during a Madre-imposed “test nap,” 
although I may need to add a little more. My right with the LDS 
email to extract its data continued. It's a war of attrition, but after 
many casualties, it's almost over. 

We also participated in our traditional sandcastle building with the 
same design as always, and it withstood the waves with the best of 
them. Then Rubio's, fro-yo, and a mini Father's Day celebration. 

Finally, we finished off the night with an animated game of Uno 
Attack! Let it be known in the annals of history and the Blake Family 
Journal that I, Gordon, reign supreme by a 2-1 majority as Uno 
Attack Champion. Long live the king! 

In scripture reading today I learned that humility is a necessary 
condition for repentance and receiving mercy through Christ's 
Atonement. Without humility we become puffed up like Simon the 

Pharisee and do not receive Christ when he comes unto us. So, don't 
let it go to your head! (Especially this headache I have.) 

535 S HIGHWAY 101, SOLANA BEACH, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° CLEAR 

MONDAY, JUNE 15, 2015 AT 10:57 PM 


A good day today. After some preparation in the morning including 
a short morning jog, we went off to Legoland “for old time's sake.” 
We did all of the old favorites, as well as a few new rides: 
-Fairy Tale Brook (my old favorite, nothing has changed since we last 
were there, except for the fact that we were too big to fit in one boat 
so we went in two and they gave us very specific instructions about 
our weight distribution. Oh yes, and Prince Charming had a Lego 
iPhone) 
-Adventurer's club (all the same) 
-Factory tour (ditto) 
-Sky cruiser (Had a freakishly long line for being the first ride we 
went to. However, the 60 minute wait gave me time to start reading 
an article on the investigation and arrest of Ross Ulbricht, creator of 
the darknet trafficking site Silk Road. Fascinating but disturbing.) 
-Enchanted Walk (or as Moodre calls it, the “Most Wanted” list of 
the garden nibblers war. Posts of Lego animals.) 
-Knight's Tournament (If you can call getting shaken around like a 
rag doll entertainment.) 
-The Dragon (another classic) 
-Lost Kingdom Adventure (also known as “shoot the little targets.” I 
was chief marksman of the family. 
-Wave Racer (for old times' sake) 
-Miniland (They added Las Vegas (meh) and Star Wars (cool)) 
-Aquarium (Another new feature, pretty standard and full of fish.) 
-Apple fries (A treat from childhood. We still have our old souvenir 
cups at home.) 

After that, we went to dinner at CPK and had a deep discussion 
about discrimination and tolerance as well as what age you'd like to 
stay at forever. (Out of those ages that I've experienced, 18.) we then 
went to a receptionydoo for someone's wedding (super informal on 
the beach) and talked with various people and answered the same 
questions over and over. “How long have you been back?” “What 
are your plan?” I probably should have initiated conversations 
instead of simply responding to them, but I'll do that next time. After 
returning, I watched “Frozen,” my first post-mission movie. It was 
good but probably overhyped. (Well, with all the hype it got, how 
couldn't it be?) Finally, I sent in a ticket for my Steam account 
support so I can log in and now am crashing in bed. 

Today in scripture study I watched a Mormon Message on a woman 
after a devastating tornado and learned that trials are invitations to 
draw closer to God. I definitely saw that on my mission. I got a lot of 
invitations. 

535 S HIGHWAY 101, SOLANA BEACH, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° CLEAR 

TUESDAY, JUNE 16, 2015 AT 10:30 PM 


Today was a day of marching. After a morning run and some 
scripture study (I learned about the importance of not letting your 
guard down from a mensaje diario and from Nephi's psalm) we 
roustified ourselves for a march to Charthouse on the beach. Padre 
stayed behind building sand castles while Madre, Kent and I walked. 
We discussed family gossip, how we got our names, and the trade 
off between excelling in the workplace and “dropping out” to enjoy 
your life. Madre explained how Padre's decision to do that was 
gradual. After the Great March, we had lunch at Orange Blossom. 
(The Spinach and Artichoke crêpe is still my favorite.) we then drove 
out to Balboa Park for a glorious visit to the Air and Space Museum. 
Unfortunately our visit was a mere two hours and ten minutes (which 
was two hours too long for the Madre). However, I enjoyed learning 
about rocket propellant cooling systems and the like. Afterwards we 
had dinner at an Italian restaurant and Kent and I went to get some 
glorious dessert for the family. However because it took so long, we 
literally had to run back to Padre and Madre in the Old Globe and 
wolf down our (delicious) cake before seeing “Rich Girl,” a show 
about a controlling, money-oriented mother and her free-spirited 
daughter who falls in love with an artist. The great question is, “What 
motivates us? Love or money?” I thought it was a bit cynical, but 
there was a ray of hope at the end when the girl ran to open the 
door for the guy. I'd give it a 6.5. Steam also resolved my login issue. 

Comcast has not. Steam .. Comcast .. Tomorrow I'm going to the 
temple for the first time in more than two years. I'm very excited and 
grateful for the privilege to worship there and be worthy. 

535 S HIGHWAY 101, SOLANA BEACH, CA, UNITED STATES • 62° CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 17, 2015 AT 8:57 PM 


A good day today. This morning I went to the temple with Mom and 
Dad. It was my first time since my mission and my first time in the 
San Diego temple. It was beautiful and I really enjoyed the session 
and the new movie. Very thought provoking. I also got new 
garments at the distribution center. Afterwards we went out to eat at 
Charthouse and got our typical Molten Chocolate Cake. After a “nap 
break” (IE continue working and finding games) I went with Kent to 
the County Fair. It was alright. I didn't really want to go, and it 
probably wasn't worth the money, but I went anyway to show 
solidarity with Kent. It was at least somewhat enjoyable. We went on 
a Ferris Wheel, got our ears boxed off by a Mad Mouse ride, and 
checked out the animals. Kent got some greasy food, but I wasn't 
hungry, so I started to leave before the concert (which Kent was 
staying for). When I neared the entrance, I got a text from Kent 
asking if I wanted the rest of his turkey leg. I said no but offered to 
bring him a deep fried gansito, which was probably another 20 
minute walk. At least my prayer to be able to serve others was 
answered. Today in scripture study I reviewed how the temple is a 
symbol of Christ and how we should always apply the scriptures to 
ourselves. That's about it. 

535 S HIGHWAY 101, SOLANA BEACH, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° SUNNY 

THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015 AT 11:05 PM 


A good day today. This morning we picked up some items at Von's 
to make lunch for Grandma Carol and Grandpa Kent. Several 
families are taking turns providing meals for them, and today was 
our turn. ( Another answer to the prayer to be able to serve.) Th y 
really are getting on in years. Their memory is going, so they asked 
us the same questions several times. However, they do seem to be 
happy, which is good. They probably won't be around by this time 
next year, so I should treasure the time I have with them. After lunch, 
we went on a great march to Jake's, fro-yo, and back to the condo. I 
wanted to work on my talks but Dad and his computer were nowhere 
to be found. So, after some cogitation, we got Rubio's for dinner 
with Grandma and Grandpa. Afterward, we saw “Inside Out,” a new 
Disney movie about the emotions that run the show inside an 11 
year old girl's head when she moves from Minnesota to San 
Francisco. (Sound familiar? I moved from Texas to Minnesota at that 
age.) It was excellent. I'd probably rate it better than “Frozen.” 
(Don't let Kent know I said that. He'd probably burn me at the stake 
for heresy.) Nevertheless , it has good humor and a good moral: we 
need all our emotions, not just the happy ones. We saw the movie in 
a luxury theater, which was most decadent and expensive. I attached 
the picture of our food. (That's water, not beer.) 
Today in scripture study, I learned that I should be cautious of 
walking by the light of my own fire, or believing I know better than 
the Lord and His servants. Because let's face it, I don't. 

32.9845° N, 117.271° W • 63° CLEAR 

FRIDAY, JUNE 19, 2015 AT 11:28 AM 


A good day today. Lots and lots of walking. It was our last day of 
vacation at Solana Beach. We marched on the beach in the morning, 
marched to lunch (sushi) and fro yo, and then hiked Torrey Pines, so 
it was quite busy (and good exercise too)! We talked about the big 
things and the little things e enjoyed about the trip. I really enjoyed 
the Air and Space Museum, even if it made Kent positively gag. Kent 
also had a list of conversation starters on his phone, which he used 
extensively to foment discussion. That was a little thing about the 
trip that I enjoyed. Finally tonight, we went to visit Grandma Carol 
and Grandpa Kent. They're getting on in years and pretty forgetful. 
Their health isn't good either, so this may well be the last time I see 
them alive. I'm glad we could spend this time with the them. 
Today in scripture study I finalized talk #1 and made and outline for 
talk #2. I also read the words of Jacob discussing the Atonement 
(incidentally one of the last scriptures we shared in a lesson on my 
mission). My biggest impression was that I don't want to waste the 
days of my probation just playing around, wasting my time, or 
sinning. So, I must be judicious in how I fill my days. After all, I don't 
want my state to be “awful.” O be wise, what can I say more? 

535 S HIGHWAY 101, SOLANA BEACH, CA, UNITED STATES • 70° SUNNY 

SATURDAY, JUNE 20, 2015 AT 3:02 PM 


A good day for pray. Actually I wanted to write, “A good day today.” 
but auto correct seems to be a few steps ahead of me. I'm actually 
writing this as we descend on the plane to Detroit, while the poor 
kid behind me is crying from the pressure change, so expect an 
addendum later tonight. Anyway, we arose this morning, finished 
packing, had breakfast, and we were off to the airport! It's always a 
little sad to have to leave San Diego, but I'm excited for the coming 
weeks, and I'm sure that Kent's looking forward to his internship at 
Visa as well. He hung with the rest of the family at the airport where 
we ate a massive doughnut (the picture above), then we said 
goodbye before we boarded. Wait! I just saw you again after almost 
four years and I have to say goodbye again already? Well, at least 
we'll be able to stay in contact through technology and we'll be 
close at Stanford. I guess this is the new phase of life for me, not 
living with my parents and brother but having frequent contact with 
them. Así es. 
On the flight, I finished a draft of talk #2, studied a bit of scriptures, 
and played some Fallout Shelter. One thing I learned from scripture 
study is how Christ, the Holy One of Israel is the keeper of the gate. 
Before I make a decision, I should think, “How would I feel standing 
before Him if I do this?” Pretty humbling. 
So there, I turned a totally boring day into a pretty decent journal 
entry. Ta da! 

Addendum: 
We returned home and I went on two shopping trips with the Madre 
to get groceries for the week and items for Father's Day lunch. I also 
did battle with the WMEs (short for white male engineers) trying to 
change my Steam password and access my Comcast email. The 
struggle continues! At least I did unpack everything. Yay! 

SPRUANCE RD, SAN DIEGO, CA, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JUNE 21, 2015 AT 4:51 AM 

I'm grateful for the chance I had to spend time with my family this 
week. That's been a long time coming. I also learned that although I 
may feel annoyed or exasperated at some things my family does, I 
can choose not to express those feelings, especially when I know 
they're petty. Exercising self-control like that strengthens my 
relationship with my family. 
Even though I was on vacation this week, the Lord provided me with 
various opportunities to serve. I was able to help cook for Grandma 
Carol and Grandpa Kent and visit with them. I'm grateful for that 
opportunity because they may not be around much longer. I also 
performed vicarious work in the temple, where it was a privilege to 
be worthy to enter. Finally, I also could perform little acts of service 
for my family, like going with Kent to the fair and getting him a 
gansito, or going shopping with Mom. Treasure those moments and 
take advantage of them to talk to my family about their lives and 
learn from them. Make a list of conversation starters or important 
questions. 
This is week, I'll be traveling again near the end of the week, so 
don't be all pouty about it. I'll have lots of appointments and 
business items. Roll with it. Make a good first impression for my 
voice teacher etc. Keep up the journaling, scripture study, prayer, 
and exercise. Oh yes, and this week I think I'm actually going to play 
computer games, so don't waste too much time on that. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 70° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JUNE 21, 2015 AT 7:09 PM 


A packed day today. I was basically busy doing things from sunup to 
sundown (well, maybe I woke up a little after sunrise, but still). I 
arose, prepared for lunch, and we made a nice Father's Day 
breakfast of French toast with berries. We then went to church where 
Dad and I gave our talks. They went well and We got a lot of 
compliments on them. Dad shared a cool story from Grandpa Kent 
about enjoying life when they went to an aquarium (Grandpa Kent 
doesn't like fish) but he had the time of his life anyway because he 
chose to enjoy himself and be happy with his family. I also have my 
number to the missionaries so we can stay in contact. 

#MemberPresent dayone1://tags?name=MemberPresent 

After church we had a glorious traditional Father's Day lunch of 
shrimp with horseradish sauce from Rachel Ray's 30 minute meals 
(pictured above. No, the plates in front of us are not our real serving 
sizes.), accompanied by corn, rolls, berries, salad, and eventually 
came (after a three hour nap break). During the break I typed up my 
other talk and called Maribel and talked to her. She says she still 
wants to go to church as often as possible, despite the lack of 
Spanish-speaking missionaries in the ward. I also talked to Brother 
Brown later today about how Theodore's doing and lobbied for 
support for Cesar and Maribel. Maybe the Salinas can be a member 
anchor. I also emailed Elder Chapdelaine and Brother Suber to say 
hi. 
Later in the evening I talked to Grammie and Grandpa Davis on the 
phone. Grammie grilled me on my summer plans, which was rather 
difficult to respond to because I've been awake on the ground in 
Michigan less than 48 hours; so a lot is still in flux. At Mom's 
insistence, I have emailed my voice teacher and the person I'll be 
working with at a research assistant position for developmental 
idealism. (It had to be at her insistence because obviously my 
knowledge of these opportunities on my mission was limited.) 
Tomorrow I have a doctor's appointment in the morning and a 
dentist appointment in the afternoon, so if I'm lucky I may have a 
moment to sit down and breathe in the evening. That's only if I'm 
lucky though. 

I learned in scripture study that we'll eventually throw away the cares 
of this world to the moles and the bats (books, computer games, 
money). So don't obsess over them. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° CLEAR 

MONDAY, JUNE 22, 2015 AT 5:59 PM 


A good day today. Fairly productive, Ali had a doctor's appointment 
in the morning in which I went through through a lot of business 
items, changed my acne prescription, and got various pokes. 
(Meningococcal meningitis shot, TB test, chicken pox blood test) 
Thankfully, the Madre had briefed me well, so everything seemed to 
go smoothly. After the visit, Padre and I had lunch at Dibella's Subs 
(with my blood test bandage still on my arm), which I had been 
craving on and off for a while. We then went to a dentist 
appointment, and which also went well. Actually, I went to both of 
these appointments solo, which was clearly a ploy from the Madre to 
make me independent and responsible, which I bought into. I think 
all the “responsible adult interaction” parts went well, though. I also 
started to read my first book of the Three Books from Stanford, “The 
Innovators.” It's about the development of programable computers 
and the Internet and is quite interesting. Tomorrow should be less 
eventful with just an eye doctor's appointment. Famous last words, 
he he he. 
I also learned in scripture study today that the first three books of 
the Book of Mormon, 1st and 2nd Nephi and Jacob could be 
considered the compilation of the testimonies of three witnesses 
who saw Christ: Nephi, Jacob, and Isaiah. This gave more meaning 
to when Nephi says, “And I bear witness” in 1 Nephi 11-12. 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 82° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, JUNE 23, 2015 AT 8:31 PM 


*Daily Checklist * 

•Go to eye exam . 
•Get new glasses . 
•Submit Vaden health forms .
•Conquer the universe . (at least, almost one planet) 
•Read development idealism paper . (2/3 of the way done) 
•Find sheet music .
A good day today. THE GLASSES! THE GLASSES! So yes, there was 
a five hour quest for me to get new glasses which included an eye 
exam, going to LensCrafters, bumbling around at the mall and finally 
get one of the two pairs I ordered. (Most expensive, eekers!) I also 
submitted my Vaden health forms and searched fruitlessly for my 
music books. So, I mostly conquered the universe but I couldn't find 
my sheet music. Ahh, the struggles. I also became Mr. Sponge to 
absorb as mush, I mean, as much as possible about the 
development of computers and developmental idealism, as I read 
both The Innovators and the DI paper extensively today. Which 
means I'm really tired. Goodnight. 

In scripture reading today I learned that Isaiah was just like us. He 
had sins he needed to repent of. He was just committed enough to 
actually repent, even when it was as painful as a burning coal on his 
lips. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 61° CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 24, 2015 AT 5:45 PM 

A good day today. Busy busy busy. I got my TB test read (negative), 
had lunch at Chipotle, and then met with Professor Thornton and 
Linda about the research assistant position on developmental 
idealism. Professor Thornton is an owl, so everything he explained 
required a fifteen minute summary of its historical background, from 
Chief Joseph of the Nez Perce to why they're coding the availability 
of educational data. Nevertheless, it seems like a good job: $12 an 
hour, 15 hours a week, and they'll even let me do the subject 
reading on the work clock. (Which is good, because he gave me 
about 400 pages to read. Actually, I've been averaging about the 
100 pages of reading material every day, from The Innovators to the 
developmental idealism paper. So, even more reading! ) I also had 
my voice lesson with Amy, which went well. For reasons I don't fully 
understand, I become unduly nervous when singing in voice lessons. 
Maybe it's the feeling of being evaluated of the fear that I haven't 
practiced enough. (She told me that I should practice 30 minutes 
every day. Ehhh…) At least it all went well, and she should help me 
be prepared for auctions at Stanford. There were a number of vocal 
groups that seemed interesting, so I should have a good range of 
choices. I also packed for Minnesota. Can we say too much packing 
and too many trips? I was also interrogated by the Madre, but that 
happens every day, so it's hardly news. 

In scripture study today, I learned about multiple-fulfillment 
prophecies. For example, Isaiah prophesied, “unto us a child is 
born” of his own son as a predicator to the Assyrian destruction of 
Israel, and as a prophecy of the birth of Christ. Thus the Holy Ghost 
can personalize prophetic fulfillment to our specific situation. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 73° SUNNY 

THURSDAY, JUNE 25, 2015 AT 8:35 PM 


A good day today. A day of travel. After making final preparations, 
we left for the airport at 11:15 and flew to Minneapolis (a flight that I 
imagine Madre is very familiar with). After arriving, we went to 
Grammie and Grandpa's house, where we had an early dinner and 
talked for a while. I was kind of tired and not in a very chatty mood, 
so I didn't foray too many questions, although I did respond to all 
the questions about my mission, which were many. After dinner, I 
read “The Innovators” a bit and then crashed on my bed (the very 
same one I slept on when I visited Grammie and Grandpa a decade 
ago.) After I arose (it was really only a fifteen minute nap), Aunt 
Jennifer popped by, so we visited for a while. Afterward, I retired to 
work on my third hour lesson and actually got it pretty much put 
together. Now I just need to run through it for time and smoothness. 
However, the time flew working on that, and suddenly it was 10:15 
and time for bed. Temple tomorrow. 

In scripture study today I learned that the Lord can use is as tools, 
but we can't credit those successes to ourselves. He even can use 
wicked people to accomplish His ends, like Assyria smiting Israel. 
However, when we boast in our own strength, we're left in our own 
strength and the Lord smites us, just and He did with Assyria. So, 
always attribute success to God. This is most applicable to my 
mission stories. 

2148 FOLWELL AVE, FALCON HEIGHTS, MN, UNITED STATES • 73° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, JUNE 26, 2015 AT 7:55 PM 

A good day today. It was dominated by us going to the temple. We 
did initiatories and endowments, which was nice, although it ran 
quite long. (We left at nine and got back about 4:00, including a late 
lunch.) I hadn't done an initiatory since I received my own, so it was 
interesting to ponder what was said there and to ponder the 
endowment in the context of the initiatory. I also noticed that 
yesterday's propensity for silence was significantly diminished in the 
temple, and I had some nice conversations with Grandpa and Dad 
while we were waiting, which was a tender mercy of the Lord. 
After going to the temple, we had lunch at Muffletta and did some 
prep for our traditional Fourth of July reunion at Uncle Clark and 
Aunt Missy's (which we're doing early this year due to scheduling 
constraints). I don't then finalized my talk and lesson for church and 
whaled on “The Innovators.” (After careful consideration, the family 
consensus is that it's “whaled” and not “wailed” when you're 
speaking in the context of attacking something with gusto, whether 
it be a project or a delinquent person.) Well, that's about it for 
personal news. 
In other events, the Supreme Court ruled on two major cases 
yesterday and today. Yesterday they upheld federal subsidies for 
alba scare, saving it again. Today, they ruled that same-sex marriage 
is a constitutional right. Despite the conservative uproar and Antonin 
Scalia's scathing dissents, I have to say I'm happy with both 
decisions. There's no sense in torpedoing the existing healthcare 
reform, especially when there's no immediate replacement for it and 
it took ten years for this one to be proposed and implemented. On 
gay marriage, I have conflicting feelings on it. I believe that marriage 
is primarily between a man and a woman. However, I also believe 
that marriage is a right that shouldn't be denied to same-sex 
couples, even though it's a choice I don't necessarily support. In 
other words, I think people have the right to do things that I 
disagree with. Additionally, I could never buy the arguments that gay 
marriage would destroy or disparage traditional marriage. Doesn't 
the fact that same-sex couples are soliciting this right indicate that 
marriage is still a valuable institution? We should be more concerned 
if they weren't asking for it. Additionally, if same-sex couples weren't 
granted the right to marry, then that would simply increase 
cohabitation and destabilize long-term relationships, hardly the 
effect you want to have if you claim to be pro-family. Admittedly, 
there are certain rights of religious groups that should be protected. 
A pastor shouldn't be forced to marry a same-sex couple if it's 
against his doctrine. However, pastors and churches have always 
except Use a high level of selection in terms of marriage 
qualifications, whether it be forbidding interfaith marriages or 
requiring the betrothed to engage in ceremonies or sacraments 
before marriage, so this ruling logically should not threaten that 
right. 
Anyway, that was a long rant. Just wait until I get on my climate-
change rant. 
In scripture reading today, I learned that it is the “knowledge of the 
Lord covering the earth” that causes millennial peace. So, my 
knowledge of the Lord in this life should lead me to be more 
peaceful with my brothers and sisters. All of them. 

2148 FOLWELL AVE, FALCON HEIGHTS, MN, UNITED STATES • 70° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, JUNE 27, 2015 AT 6:41 PM 


A good day today. We went up to Clark and Missy's for our 
traditional family reunion. We took two cars to avoid being squished. 
I rode up with Grammy and Grandpa, who regaled me with stories 
from their lives. I kind of wanted to record some of it on the 
memories app, but didn't think to do so until we were too late in the 
trip. When we arrived, we chilled in chairs in the shade under the 
porch and I read my book and dervished in a rocking chair while 
waiting for the others to arrive. For lunch, we had yummy gyros 
(which we have been debating the pronunciation of for the past day. 
Hard “g” or soft?) and for dessert had a truly decadent chocolate 
cake that even I couldn't finish. Later, we did a little fishing along the 
bank, since Uncle Clark's boat battery wasn't working. I caught three 
fish, which I figure covers the three years since I've been at the 
reunion (my desire to catch fish averages out to about one a year). 
They were all the same tips of this red horse sucker fish with big lips. 
(See picture above.) Due to the massiveness of the cake, we 
forewent the traditional Dairy Queen run and went straight back 
home, where I read my book and an Ensign article Grammir gave me 
saying that 7:30 is too late to get up in the morning. I understand 
the importance of a reasonable sleep schedule, but aren't we 
getting a wee bit over-specific here? Well, I know it's just because 
she loves me. 
In scripture study today, I learned two things about Satan. First, like 
the Medes who destroyed Babylon, he has no respect for men, 
women, or children. Second, it was because he tried to exalt himself 
that he lost all of his power and was abased. In “The Innovators”, 
there are many accounts of people seeking undue credit, patent 
lawsuits, egotism, and other examples of seeking to “exalt oneself.” 
These generally cause a lot pain and bad feelings. Thus, I should be 
careful not to try to exalt myself of extol “my” achievements, 
because as I wrote previously , they aren't truly mine after all. 

2148 FOLWELL AVE, FALCON HEIGHTS, MN, UNITED STATES • 79° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JUNE 28, 2015 AT 7:16 AM 

Once again, this has been a very busy week. At least it was very 
productive. I should make sure not to let the excuse that “I have to 
work.” Or “I need to read this for school.” interferes with my 
relationship with my family. Put down the phone, book, or computer 
and talk to them as necessary. That relationship is more important 
than both work and play. 
I am happy that I've been able to continue with consistent prayer 
and scripture study, and hope to keep that going after my schedule 
settles. Other things I can include in that pattern are: indexing, 
listening to Mormon messages or Canal Mormón, or family history. 
One things that stresses me out is voice lessons, so make sure to set 
aside time to practice so I don't feel as stressed. 
Once my schedule stabilizes I can see about going to a summer 
institute class so I can meet other people my age. I suppose I'll also 
have to eventually get a Facebook. I should check out myplan at 
LDS.org to see what resources are there to help me plan my life. 
As for the patterns I want to continue to emulate, scripture study and 
prayer are going well, and I've been able to serve in the temple, 
although I should look for other service opportunities as well. 

2113–2137 LARPENTEUR AVE W, FALCON HEIGHTS, MN, UNITED STATES • 70° MOSTLY 
CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JUNE 28, 2015 AT 8:41 PM 

I feel kind of hesitant to tag this entry under “vacation” because 
basically I was working in a performance role all day. It was a good 
performance role, but performance nonetheless. We left a little after 

10:00 to go to church in Plymouth, where I spoke in sacrament 
meeting (different talk this time, on grace). I also gave a lesson to 
the youth in third hour on the more nitty gritty of serving a mission, 
from the schedule to walking in the sleet, etc. as I began the 
presentation, I realized that the youth of my audience solicited more 
involvement than I'd planned for, so I added some questions, and 
even a mini roleplay of a contact. That was cleat inspired of the Lord 
because it hadn't been in my plan. After the lesson we had lunch 
with the Reid's and an open house there where I caught up with lots 
of people, consumed too much chocolate, and became very tired. It 
wasn't bad to talk to many old friends and acquaintances, but it's 
definitely not something that energizes me. Lots of people are the 
same, some are different. I'm excited to go to the science museum 
tomorrow and minimize my human interaction and maximize my 
learning. 
In scripture study today, I learned about how much people like 
Nephi yearned for our salvation and happiness, so much that they 
wrote scripture and exhorted throughout their lives. Something that I 
thought about in sacrament meeting today is how I can mesh my 
“secular” and “spiritual” learning and relate them to one another 
because both are parts of the same great truth. Doing this is one 
way to “always remember” Christ, as an covenant to do in the 
Sacrament. 
2148 FOLWELL AVE, FALCON HEIGHTS, MN, UNITED STATES • 70° PARTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, JUNE 29, 2015 AT 8:37 PM 


A good day today. Sadly, the science museum was closed, as were 
many other museums, since it was Monday. Thankfully, we found this 
out before leaving for the science museum and were able to make a 
detour to the Como Zoo and Conservatory instead. While there, we 
saw lots of animals, including a polar bear, gorillas, and giraffes 
pretty il up close. I thought it was interesting that the polar bear had 
big feet as “snowshoes,” the gorillas had big hands that they walked 
on, and the giraffes' legs were relatively small compared to their 
body size. 
After we returned and I took an unexpected nap, we all drove out to 
Plymouth where we swung by our old house, which basically looks 
the same except the tree in front if a little bigger. Can you believe 
that Mom pointed out these dark spots on the stucco? I know, it's 
not surprising at all. STUCCO OBSESSION! I then had dinner with 
Evan Stuempfig at Old Chicago, which was fun. We caught up on 
how everything is going in our lives, school, games, interests, etc. 
He's going into his junior year at the University of Minnesota where 
he's majoring in CS and doing other WMEfication. After returning, I 
played a bit of “The Room Two” and finally finished reading “The 
Innovators,” which was a good read. One down, two to go. Actually, 
finally probably isn't the right word for it because it took me a week, 
but no lolly gagging! 
In scripture study today I read on LDS.org about preserving your 
mission language, which made me feel better that at least I'm 
praying and reading the Book of Mormon in Spanish. I also 
pondered the “greatness of the stumbling blocks” of the modern 
world from distracting and inappropriate entertainment to a focus of 
wealth and status-seeking (that was in “the Innovators” a lot. Tread 
cautiously. 
It's been a nice vacation, but it'll be nice to get a vacation from 
vacations for a while. 

44.9888° N, 93.191° W 

TUESDAY, JUNE 30, 2015 AT 4:50 PM 

A good day of travel today. We left Grammie and Grandpa at 8:00 in 
the morning and went to the airport. We flew over (and got 
upgraded to first class!) and arrives in Detroit a little before 1:00. 
After we got back and unpacked, we had lunch at Panera and did a 
quick shopping trip to Meyer's. Afterward I did part of the 
background check info for my job at the U of M, which involved me 
filling out all of my past addresses for the last seven years. Then, 
when I hit “Next,” I discovered that the session had timed out and 
all of my information had erased and I had to do it all over again! I 
then played a few games and basically failed at all of them from lack 
of skill and control knowledge. We got “Interstellar” from Redbox 
but decided we didn't have time to watch it tonight, so we'll do so 
tomorrow after I go in to work in the morning. 
I studied scriptures on the plane and had some extra time, so I 
learned a lot. I pondered on how the very trials we complain about 
often give us the skills we need. For example, vigorous persecution 
of post-Diaspora Jews may have kept them together as a culture. So 
don't be a whiny mouth. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

July 2015 

WEDNESDAY, JULY 1, 2015 AT 7:35 PM 

A good day today. It was nominally my “first” day at work, although 
all my forms aren't through so I'm still not an official employee. I 
woke up early, went on a run (which became long when I had trouble 
finding a loop back to the house), and went in with Mom to work. 
After reading in the Dean's Suite, I took my map (I eschewed a 
personal guide) and marched over to the institute for social research 
(ISR) in the damp mist. I met some other team members there, 
submitted my I-9, and read an old research proposal which explains 
why I'm coding the availability of education data. I left at noon and 
had lunch at Frita Batido's, a Cuban sandwich place where I ate last 
time I was in Ann Arbor. I then fought brave battles in Age of 
Wonders 3, and watched “Interstellar” with Dad, which was a really 
great movie. For all the crazy time travel and relativity involved, the 
science was quite well done and the almost three hour movie held 
my attention well. I also started reading “This Boy's Life,” another of 
the Three Books for Stanford. 
In scripture study today (in the dean's suite), I learned about how to 
get more out of the scriptures by asking “Why did the writer include 
this?”, not becoming angry or offended at correction, and not using 
the excuse “I've read enough” to justify not studying the scriptures. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 63° CLEAR 

THURSDAY, JULY 2, 2015 AT 6:02 PM 


A good day today. I think today was the first day since I've been 
back when I've had absolutely nothing to do. No assignments, no 
appointments, nothing. That's a dangerous thing, nothing. So I 
combatted the void by making things for myself to do like reading 
“This Boy's Life” (which reads very fast, I'm halfway through) and 
taking all of my mission items from the drawer where they were 
stashed, sorting them, and putting the survivors in a box for storage. 
I had lunch with Padre at Metzger's which was fair, and dinner with 
Madre at Noodles, which was good. She was on this long rant on the 
church's latest manifesto against gay marriage. I shared my ideas. 
Most I wonder why the church puts so much emphasis on this while 
not vocally attacking things like cohabitation or divorce. Maybe the 
people who do that are already outside the church while there are 
still a lot of gays in the church. But is the way to save them really to 
yell at them and say they're sinners? Anyway, I also laid a massive 
siege in Age of Wonders 3 ending in my triumph against the 
dwarves, despite the fact that they surrounded their city walls with 
fire. (They mistakenly left that fire, which proved to be their 
downfall.) I'm sure there's a moral in that. “Don't leave the safe 
place.” 
Speaking of morals, in scripture study today I learned that we 
shouldn't murmur against the sayings of the Lord, even when they 
seem hard. Thus, with this new letter on gay marriage that may 
appear to be needlessly offensive, I'll try to avoid murmuring or 
encouraging it in others. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 66° SUNNY 

FRIDAY, JULY 3, 2015 AT 7:54 PM 


A good day today. The iPhone text prediction now has that phrase 
memorized. I've trained it well. In the morning, I went with Mom to 
the store. 

And then I fell asleep and didn't finish this journal entry until the next 
day. Well, not really, but I did forget to finish this journal entry 
because we stayed up late talking to vent, then watched “Boom 
Boom and the Search for El Gorado,” which has become a classic. 
I'm glad I followed the little impression to make it so many summers 
ago. Anyway, after returning from the store we had lunch at a nice 
little Mediterranean place and then Madre and I went into a cooking 
frenzy to prepare food for dinner and for the Fourth. We made these 
“Latin Hamburgers” with chorizo and caramelized onions that were 
quite delicious, if work-intensive. I found the recipe in “Sky” 
magazine when we were flying to San Diego. Padre and I also 
watched “How to Train Your Dragon 2,” partly which was good, but 
not groundbreaking. 
In scripture reading, I learned about applying the doctrine of Christ 
to my life, which basically means living it in the heart and in actions 
and not just going through the motions. That's about it for yesterday. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 57° MIST AND FOG 

SATURDAY, JULY 4, 2015 AT 4:17 PM 

Happy Fourth of July! We celebrated with a nice walk in the Nichols 
Arboretum, which goes along the river in Ann Arbor and has some 
nice topology like hills and wetlands. I opted for that in favor of a 
movie, which I just wasn't feeling. We also went out to DQ and got 
our traditional Fourth of July treat. (Mine was a Chocolate Chip 
Cookie Dough Brownie Blizzard.) I also weeded the yard with Madre, 
which was apparently her idea of celebration. I continued to read 
“This Boy's Life” and wrestled with a hard scenario in Age of 
Wonders 3. (I let the enemy build up too much when I only had two 
cities, so when I finally went to war with them I had to slog through a 
bunch of elite enemy units. I'm required a lot of tactical miracles. 
When I was reading in the scriptures I really felt the Spirit reading in 
2 Nephi 33:10-12, one of my favorite scriptures. I really felt like it was 
a real person speaking. I even got a little teary-eyed as I read it in 
Spanish. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 77° HAZY 

SUNDAY, JULY 5, 2015 AT 5:56 AM 

This week was my most complete week “back” at home, so I started 
to face some challenges like making sure I use my time wisely and 
balance doing productive work and playing. Having a list of things I 
want to accomplish for each day is helpful. I should also vary my 
recreation including reading, movies while working in the house, and 
family activities. It's good that we have lots of family meals together. 
I should set aside all or part of that meal time for undistracted 
conversation with my parents. When speaking with Kent via Skype, I 
should show patience and interest. I have done an excellent job with 
daily exercise and scripture study. I also like that I reach back and 
remember it at night writing in my journal. This should help me keep 
straight and keep my thoughts clean. I did have some temptations to 
have unclean thoughts, so if something's bothering me, I should 
stop what I'm doing and do something else. Always remembering 
Christ is a way to keep my thoughts clean. I was able to elevate my 
thoughts by quoting scripture when temptation came. I should do 
singing practice more consistently. I've continued to pray for 
missionaries and investigators, and some members, and I should 
make sure to write them. That's an excellent Sabbath Day activity. I'd 
like to go to the temple at least once every two to three weeks. Talk 
with my parents about this goal. In addition to temple service, I'd 
like to do other forms of service. Indexing, Bishop's storehouse, and 
the Vineyard are all good opportunities for this. This will help me 
balance out my play time. Before using the computer, I'd like to offer 
s short prayer, and I don't want to play for longer than an hour and a 
half at a time. 
I fasted about knowing how to minister to Kent. My answer was to 
rely on the Atonement just as I relied on the Atonement to deal with 
it. I don't really know what that means or how to apply it, but I'll 
keep moving forward. 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 61° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, JULY 5, 2015 AT 6:13 PM 

A good Sabbath today. It was my first Sunday since I've been back 
that I haven't had to give a talk of some sort! It was a nice fast and 
testimony meeting. The husband of one of the Quinn girls got up 
and bore testimony about attending church in the Republic of 
Georgia and how there were people seeking for the truth there who 
are truly our brothers and sisters. (Several members of the Quinn 
family were here today. It was kind of like seeing TV celebrities 
because I'd heard so much about them from their Dad's missionary 
letters.) In fact, it was a very spiritual church service, which I think 
goes to show how much control we have as members over inviting 
the Spirit by how we choose to listen, participate, and share 
appropriate spiritual experiences. 
After church we had lemon pepper chicken for lunch, which was 
good, and then I updated the family journal and wrote Elder 
Chapdelaine. After running out of things I could do without waking 
up the rest of the napping family, I took a nap myself (kind of against 
my will since I didn't want to interrupt my sleep patterns, but those 
things seem to creep up on you). I also made a contact directory of 
people from my mission. 
I pondered a lot of things during the sacrament, church, and 
scripture study. One impression is that I'd like to act on this land as if 
for years while here in Ann Arbor by being fully involved in the ward, 
in service, and with my family. I already signed up to serve in the 
Bishop's Storehouse, which was an answer to my prayers for service 
opportunities. (It's not hard to get an answer to that prayer when you 
regularly attend church.) 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 70° SUNNY 

MONDAY, JULY 6, 2015 AT 6:51 PM 


A good day today. Pretty productive. Padre and I went early to the 
Michigan Secretary of State place to get a Michigan driver's license, 
then we got haircuts. Despite it being literally the same haircut I 
always get, Moodre seemed to think it was too short. [Sigh] I also 
started reading “No More Goodbyes” by Carol Lynn Pearson, which 
Kent had recommended to me. It is quite engaging so far, although 
much of it has covered things that I already believe, like 
homosexuality is primarily determined by genetics and neonatal 
environment and that we should reject our brothers and sisters who 
are attracted to those of the same sex. Additionally, I went down the 
river in a Kayak with Dad (to the tune of much Padre talk and 
bragging about how he was an expert because he's been in a kayak 
“at least three times,” this time inclusive. I also tried out playing 
Civilization: Beyond Earth, which was fun, and even won a small war 
against someone foolhardy enough to test me. Let's see, I also read 
some Stanford stuff and tried to decide on an over the summer 
programming course. Finally, I called Aunt Donna and talked to her 
tonight, which I figured was a minimum of consolation if I'm not 
going to New York to visit her immediately. I want to, but I don't 
want to at the same time. 
In scripture study today, I learned how facing crises can make us rise 
to the occasion, as teaching the people of their greater-than-normal 
wickedness required a greater-than-normal spirituality by Jacob. All 
rise! 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 75° SUNNY 

TUESDAY, JULY 7, 2015 AT 5:44 PM 


A good day today. It was my first “real” day of work in which I 
actually did coding. However, I didn't do that much because the 
group had lunch at a Chinese restaurant with some people from the 
Afro Barometer, a group that conducts extensive surveys in African 
countries. There were people from Tanzania and Cape Verde, so it 
was a really cool cultural experience, and I learned about how 
surveys are put together and controlling for everything from varying 
questions over survey rounds to translation. (They translate the 
questions from English into the survey language and then back from 
the language into English, and if it's not the same as the original, 
they scrap the translation.) 
The rest was just coding education availability data: 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 

0 1. It was still decently fun. I also went to dinner at Pizza House with 
Mom (picture in Dean's Suite) and then went to institute. There were 
four students there, including me. The class was alright, nothing 
profound, but it was good to go there and the Spirit was there, so 
I'm sure I'll be blessed for it. I also prepared for the great assault on 
Brazilia in Civilization: Beyond Earth. 
In scripture study today, I learned the importance of bearing 
testimony to my children. I shouldn't assume they know I have one. I 
saw how this helped with my parents as they've shared more 
personal stories about their testimonies recently, I've come to see 
their testimonies as a more active part of their lives. 

703 TAPPAN ST, ANN ARBOR, MI, UNITED STATES • 64° CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, JULY 8, 2015 AT 6:27 PM 


A good day today. It was my first “full” day of work. I know I keep 
saying that, but today I actually worked a full five hours with no 
extended lunch breaks or anything. It was nice. Nothing really 
special, although I kept trying to perfect my algorithms for coding 
stuff in the excel file: copying columns where there were repeats, 
filling the field with zeroes first, etc. I also started the CS 101 
Stanford Online course. It was pretty basic stuff so far, but I did run a 
bit of code (hence the picture). I also searched for a new laptop, 
which involved more spreadsheets as I organized various descriptive 
statistics. First impressions: MacBook Air is overpriced. Let's see, I 
also won some long-overdue siege battles in both Age of Wonders 
and Beyond Earth. 
In scripture study today, I read Jacob 5, the allegory of the olive tree. 
It's always struck me how much both Heavenly Father (the Lord of 
the vineyard), and Jesus Christ (the servant) are pleading for us. They 
do all they can to help us, and when we fall short they weep. They 
want to stretch out their arms and save us. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, JULY 9, 2015 AT 7:05 PM 

A good day today. It was my first last day of work in the week. I'm 
going to milk that “first” thing for all it's worth! It was nice, and I 
went out for lunch with Dad at Real Seafood, where he complained 
about Ted. After work I practiced singing and learned more about 
computer programming. I learned how to change the colors in a 
picture or brighten and darken it. I also finally won the AoW 3 
scenario, which was a bit anticlimactic because the last people I had 
to defeat didn't build up like the first two factions. I rolled over them 
like a steamroller over a muffin. Hmm… food. Padre and I also ate at 
Chela's for dinner, which was good, but not nearly as scrumptious as 
San José Taquería. 
In scripture study today I learned that, as a servant with the Lord in 
the vineyard, I should unite my brothers and sisters with the Master. 
Additionally, happiness isn't getting everything you want. 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 61° MIST AND FOG 

FRIDAY, JULY 10, 2015 AT 8:30 PM 

A good day today. I did some more programming classes and 
learned how to do the “green screen” technique to put images on 
different backgrounds. I also went out with Dad and saw Jurassic 
World. It was all right. Kind of bloody for my taste. (But what can you 
expect, they're dinosaurs?) Not as good as the original, but still a 
movie. I read more of “No More Goodbyes,” conquers the world in 
AoW 3, and went shopping with Padre (Mom was too tired to go). 
That's the day. 
In scripture study today, I was interested that when Lehi counsels his 
posterity, he includes the sons of Ishmael with his sons. That shows 
real charity for adopting them after their father died. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 61° CLEAR 

SATURDAY, JULY 11, 2015 AT 5:44 PM 


Kentre's creature goes to the moon! So, Kent got this stinkin' stuffed 
animal from someone in his mission that just happens to be sitting in 
the room where I use the computer downstairs. For my 
programming course, there was an optional part where I could use a 
green screen effect on a picture of my own (put it against a green 
background and replace that background with another picture, pixel 
by pixel). I looked for something green in the room and conveniently 
found my green blanket. I looked around for something easy to 
photograph that would contrast with the background, and there it 
was, the animal! So that's the story behind that. I actually did quite a 
bit of the CS 101 course today. We also got my new glasses at 
LensCrafters. I don't like them, in fact, I like them less than the other 
pair I got there. However, everyone else seems to adore the “WME 
gogs,” and given that they “see them” more than I do, I suppose I'll 
keep them. I still can't believe we pause over $700 for these things. I 
feel like that money could have been spent elsewhere. I also went 
for a little hike with Padre in a nature preserve where we pondered 
the Mystery of the Fallen Tree, investigated the Strange Red Berries, 
and discovered that standing water=mosquitoes. I also helped Mom 
get stuff ready for lunch tomorrow, including prepping the bread 
maker (I literally had to wipe costs of dust off it because it was stored 
in the garage.) and making blondies. I get to star as the 
assistant/companion for both of my parents. Mostly my trouble with 
today was finding something that was both engaging and 
worthwhile. The computer games felt like neither of those, and many 
other tasks were worthwhile but not particularly engaging. The 
closest match was actually the CS course, which was a bit of both 
until I started falling asleep watching the lectures .. 
I also finished reading “No More Goodbyes.” It definitely raised my 
consciousness, although at some level I already understood most of 
what the book said (I should love my gay brothers and sisters. Many 
of them are horribly and unjustly persecuted.) however, the stories 
did give a face to the ideas. 
In scripture study today I read an interesting quote, “I can tell, 
looking back, that God truly loves me by inventorying the petitions 
He has refused to grant me.” -Elder Neal A. Maxwell. That and 
“considering the length of eternity” should help me be more 
grateful and make better choices. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES 

SUNDAY, JULY 12, 2015 AT 7:15 AM 

I did a lot of good work this week, but sometimes I still felt like I 
wasn't using my time wisely. My interest in playing computer games 
has decreased, and I did other things much more, like work, the 
programming course, and reading. However, I couldn't shake the 
feeling that I was washing time. I chose to spend time with my family 
and put down the book and talk with them (although I could do 
better with the “putting down the book” part. I kept my goal of 
putting it down once the food came, but maybe I should just keep it 
down at restaurants altogether.). I went to institute, served my 
parents, sent people from the mission letters, studied my scriptures 
and exercised daily, and generally did a lot of good things. (Oh yes, I 
almost forgot! I also called Aunt Donna, who made me feel a little 
bad about not going to New York. Why can't I decide on anything!?) 
Something may still be missing. Maybe I should do more service. 
This week I'll be going to the Bishop's Storehouse, and I also want to 
go to the temple. Today, I'll look up activities I can do on the 
Vineyard. My daily list went well this past week. One thing I'd like to 
do is plan a meaningful activity for each day of the week. I also want 
to brainstorm ideas of other things I can do in my free time besides 
playing computer games, reading, and watching movies. Once I've 
organized myself a little with those ideas, I can talk to Mom and Dad 
about them as well. To facilitate the use of this list, I can set aside 
one day of the week when I won't play computer games. Heavenly 
Father has blessed me not to be bored doing the various activities I 
have, so be grateful for that and take advantage of it to be 
productive and positive. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° HAZE 

SUNDAY, JULY 12, 2015 AT 5:58 PM 

A good Sabbath today. In church there was one talk from a 
missionary about to leave to go to Sao Paolo, Brazil, and another 
talk from a missionary who had just returned from Seoul, Korea. Both 
were good talks. I took more notes from the first but the second had 
lots of mission stories (including one that involved climbing the same 
hill three times and talking to people who weren't at all interested 
before running into someone who was. I could identify with that.) I 
spoke briefly withy both of them and talked to the return missionary 
about adjusting to post-missionary life. He's just bouncing around 
the country with his flight-attendant mom and visiting friends, which 
probably isn't good for his poor schedule-bound psyche, but he'll 
survive. After church we had a wonderful meal of broiled honey 
mustard glazed salmon with bread from the bread maker that 
imitated County Line's and Blondies for dessert, which was yummy. 
After an involuntary nap, I wrote my entry in the family journal, 
looked for service opportunities on the Vineyard at lds.org (where it 
suggested that I should be vice chairman of the perpetual education 

committee .. 
). I then did some indexing and scripture reading and 
now here I am, writing in my journal. I know, it's totally a pedestrian 
day. No $60 million gifts like the Madre last week. At least I did a 
little good in the world today. 
In lieu of writing about what I learned in scripture study today, I want 
to share an experience I just had while offering my nightly prayer. 
Keeping in mind President Smith's words that I “can't just say a quick 
one to satisfy my conscience,” I offered a sincere prayer expressing 
my experiences, ideas, and hopes. After the prayer, I felt prompted 
to stay on my knees a little bit longer. As I knelt, the words to the 
hymn, “Reverently and Meekly Now” came into my head. 

Reverently and meekly now, let thy head most humbly now 

I stayed on my knees, head inclined. 

Think of me thou ransomed one, think what I for thee have done. 

As I thought the words, I remembered that I hadn't really had the 
chance to ponder to Atonement during sacrament today because I 
was pressed into service passing, and all the hubbub with route 
assignments and making sure everyone was covered didn't leave my 
mind room to reflect. I decided to ponder the Atonement and reflect 
on a few of my personal experiences with it. 

With my blood that dripped like rain, sweat in agony of pain, with 
my body on the tree, I have ransomed even thee. 

Tears began to stream down my face as I thought about how I have 
been ransomed, very literally and powerfully, by Christ. It was a 
powerful experience, and I'm so glad I stayed on my knees for it. 
In fact, I'm grateful for the frequency of spiritual experiences in my 
life in general right now. I feel like I have them at least as often as I 
did on my mission, if not more often. I don't know exactly why that 
is, but I do know that I'm striving to be worthy of them. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 73° SUNNY 

MONDAY, JULY 13, 2015 AT 5:29 PM 


A good day today. Dad and I went out to the Greenfield Village 
living history exhibit at the ford museum complex, which is a town 
set in the turn of the century 1900s with various crafts and original 
buildings of various famous people, like the Wright Brothers' bicycle 
shop, the homes of Robert Frost and Noah Webster, and some of 
Edison's laboratories. I learned how a steam powered electrical 
generator works after Padre asked many specific questions about 
one to a poor guide there. We also had an old-timey lunch at one of 
the restaurants there, which was fair fare, and despite the doomsday 
warnings of several of Padre's many weather apps, we did not get 
rained on. After we got back, I learned about table programming, 
comma separated values, and Boolean logic, and read a bit of Cane 
River, the last of the Three Books. I also downloaded Dwarf Fortress 
with some other tools for it, but wanted to wait for Norton to run its 
virus check before opening the zip file. Two hours, one million items 
checked and counting. Hmm, methinks that's about it for the day. 
In scripture study today I read from the Words of Mormon and the 
beginning of Mosiah. I found it interesting that point that the study 
guide made that Nephi's small plates are made not only to replace 
the 116 manuscript pages lost from the Book of Lehi, but also to 
bring the testimonies of Nephi, Jacob, and Isaiah to our knowledge 
(these being recorded on the more spiritual small plates). Thus the 
Lord used an apparent setback to bring about His purposes and an 
improved record. 

MAIN ST, DEARBORN, MI, UNITED STATES • 79° SUNNY 

TUESDAY, JULY 14, 2015 AT 4:52 PM 

A good day today. I went back to work and did more data coding, 
and get in search of more efficient ways to put in large amounts of 
information into Excel in a short time. I also heard back from Amy 
about voice lessons, which I'm sure will be pleasing to the Madre. I 
went out with Dad to lunch at a Mongolian BBQ, which was good 
but didn't quite rank up to Ghengis Grill. Before work I read a bit in 
my book and watched some more CS 101 classes about counting on 
table entries. After work I caught up briefly on Dwarf Fortress, then 
Dad and I went out to the Bishop's Storehouse, which is almost an 
hour away, to help with packing. I'm writing this as we have dinner 
away the Sardine Room, a tapas place. 
In my scripture study today, I began reading King Benjamin's 
speech, and he begins by speaking of the importance of opening 
not just our ears but our minds and hearts to prophetic counsel. I 
think that includes considering how we can apply that council in our 
lives. 

344 S MAIN ST, PLYMOUTH, MI, UNITED STATES • 77° PARTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, JULY 15, 2015 AT 5:03 PM 

A good day today. I brought some earphones in to work so I could 
listen to music, which kind of helped pass the time better, although I 
didn't have many playlists, so I just ended up putting all of my songs 
on shuffle and getting an eclectic mix jumping from Aida to “Te 
Mando Flores.” After work, Dad and I went to Best Buy to browse for 
a laptop. He thinks that my main consideration is its gaming 
capacity, which is a factor, but not the principal one. Maybe I should 
communicate that better. After getting back, I practiced singing and 
went through a few of the new pieces. I also played a bit of Dwarf 
Fortress and got a basic fortress up and running complete with the 
ability to perform an emergency lockdown by raising a bridge, as 
well as food production. The only thing I'm missing is ore. Dad and I 
had dinner at a Mediterranean restaurant, which was very good, then 
ate massive vats of gelato for dessert. I also continued reading 
“Cane River,” which I'm covering at a fair good clip. Maxed also 
arrived rather late, leading to a late scripture study and a most late 
online shopping run at GAP to get me clothes acceptable for 
humanity (which always seem to be the clothes that are more 

expensive). At least she found me a NASA t-shirt on Amazon .. 
In scripture study, I continued to read from King Benjamin's address 
and learned that when we sin, it's like experiencing s mini Fall.“For 
all have sinned and come short of the glory of God” (Romans 3:23). 
Now we need the Atonement to get back. 

4964 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 75° SUNNY 

THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2015 AT 5:52 PM 

A good day today. I went in to work and was basically alone. 
Everyone was out of the office except Jeff, who came in later. We 
had lunch at an Indian restaurant and talked about missions, having 
two-working-parent homes, and choosing a major. I also listened to 
all of Les Miserables and Aida, as well was some other songs as I 
worked. I think I might listen to audiobooks as I work because it's 
just too hard to find five hours of music for every day. After work I 
went straight into an hour-long voice lesson with Amy and survived 
her basic music theory quizzes, did lots of warm ups, and practiced a 
bit of a song called “Come Away, Death.” After the voice lesson, I 
changed and went straight to the missionary high council report with 
Mom and Dad. There were five missionaries reporting, so we cycled 
through in two groups, and two other missionaries reported in my 
group. It took about an hour, then we went to dinner at Olive 
Garden. I also sent in my time sheet for work (hopefully), so I'm one 
step closer to moolah. Additionally, I decided to start a new fortress 
in DD after finding out that my current one lacked any iron ore or 
fuel ore. My new one has both. 
In scripture study, I pondered how I should learn to consecrate my 
life now so I can set that example for my children. #Consecrated day 

one1://tags?name=Consecrated 

814 MONROE ST, ANN ARBOR, MI, UNITED STATES • 70° SUNNY 

FRIDAY, JULY 17, 2015 AT 4:57 PM 


A good day today. Dad and I went to the temple in the morning and 
after navigating traffic jams and faulty GPSs, we had a nice session. 
Afterwards we went out to an Italian restaurant, which was fair. We 
then went to Marvin's Marvelous Mechanical World ore something 
like that, which I thought would be more of a novelty museum with a 
focus on old games, but turned out to be more of an arcade, which 
isn't really my style. So we looked around, played a few token 
games, and left. Afterwards I played a bit of DF, and then finished 
my CS 101 course, which was fun. I think now I'm going to try to 
learn about Macros in excel to see if I can use them at work to 
greatly speed up to coding process. I could probably use it with the 
world bank data at least to help me run through it a lot faster. 
Tonight I also watched some Wallace and Gromit shorts with Dad, 
which were fun. 
In scripture study today, I learned about how faith leads to 
knowledge in the gospel, instead of the world's expectation that 
knowledge should create faith. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 88° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SATURDAY, JULY 18, 2015 AT 3:12 PM 


A good day today. I spent much of it learning about Macros in excel 
(maybe five hours), and with the help of Padre and the Internet, 
making some aids for my job at ISR. I now have a program that will 
change data to ones and blank cells to zero, another that will 
automatically change the names on the world bank data to those on 
my spreadsheet, and another that removes extra names from the 
world bank data and adds the names that the world bank doesn't 
have with no data associated. I also worked a bit on the G-DSM and 
found some good pictures for Audio Guide Syndrome. We went out 
to lunch at Noodles and then attempted to go to the art fair but had 
to abort the mission due to inclement weather. I also helped amazed 
wrap Padre's birthday presents and cook his birthday meal, which is 
basically the same as his Father's Day meal, which is basically the 
same as the birthday meal Kent designed for him ten years ago. I 
also wrote Padre's birthday card and shredded all my old blank 
checks (two activities not to be confused). Who said that Saturday is 
supposed to be relaxing? Not when the Madre can help it! 
One thing I thought was interesting in scripture reading is how 
Ammon rescues a people in bondage (Limhi's) who had “sold 
themselves for naught” just like Christ rescues us. I hadn't seen that 
before. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 82° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, JULY 19, 2015 AT 7:27 AM 

I had a very productive week this week with many different types of 
work, including my job, taking the CS 101 course, learning about 
Excel macros, reading “Cane River,” and helping Mom and Dad out 
with various jobs. I was also able to serve in a number of ways, 
including going to the Bishop's Storehouse and the temple, as well 
as my missionary high council report where I could share my 
testimony. Even my “fun” was kind of productive as I worked on the 
G-DSM, which is one of those things that will create lasting 
memories. I really didn't play that many computer games, although I 
still feel somewhat conflicted about it. I have a reduced desire to 
play, and could probably get along fine doing other things (as I did 
on Saturday when I worked on Macros for five hours). However, 
When I do play they tend to hold my attention and enjoyment. 
Nevertheless, sometimes after I play I feel like I wasted my time 
(barring the philosophical question of whether it's really any less 
productive to play a computer game than read a book). I should 
discuss it with my parents to see their perspective. One thing I have 
decided is to make sure not to stay up extra late on Saturday to try 
to get every possible moment of play time out of the day before 
Sunday. That's not a very good signal of the covenant I've made with 
God to keep the Sabbath Day holy. Going to bed at 11:00 pm will 
be fine. I had lots of good conversations with my parents this week 
and I put the book down and talked to them. The car is best to have 
an uninterrupted conversation, although meals work well too. I 
should review my “questions for Mom and Dad” and maybe even 
submit them in writing so they have time to think about them. It will 
help us understand each other better. Daily goals are good, keep 
them up. I'm also continuing with daily prayer and scripture study. I 
should strive to focus on them or bring a question (Like “What 
should I do about computer games?”) that will help me have a 
spiritual experience. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 82° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, JULY 19, 2015 AT 4:18 PM 

A good Sabbath today. Church was nice, except I became rather 
sleepy during one of the talks. No more staying up late for me! 
(Except I got plenty of sleep last night, so I don't really know why it 
happened.) after church we had Padre's traditional birthday lunch of 
shrimp with horseradish sauce and like County Line bread. After 
lunch I wrote César and Maribel and did a bit of indexing (during 
which I became very sleepy again but didn't take a nap). I also wrote 
my entry in the family journal. As you can tell, it's been a busy week. 
After that, we read scriptures, opened Padre's presents, and had a 
bit of cake. That about covers everything for today. I still have to 
decide what I'll do with Dad tomorrow. We could go see a movie, or 
we could do something else. 
In scripture study, I read about a Zeniff. Two impressions: first, I 
should avoid an “excessive zeal” for worldly things cough cough 
computer games cough cough. Additionally, when I face hard things 
(I was reading my old letters to Kent about Stanford interviews and 
finals weeks, freaky!), I shouldn't be so concerned with how hard 
they are but rather whether or not I can face them with the strength 
of the Lord. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 82° SUNNY 

MONDAY, JULY 20, 2015 AT 7:41 PM 

A good day today. Quite busy. In the morning, I weeded the garden 
(or rather, began the epic endeavor known as The Weeding). Padre 
and I also worked on the VBA macros for excel for my work, and 
after some more tweaks tonight, I think they're in working condition 
to use in work tomorrow. They're not robust: if you don't copy the 
original data into the right cell, it throws everything off (mostly 
because you have to move around Liechtenstien and Réunion 
because of their problems in the alphabetical order in the list where I 
enter my data). However, it does work, and it's much faster and 
arguably more accurate than doing it by hand. After that, Padre and 
I went out for lunch at the mall at s place called Olga's, adjusted my 
glasses (which I still don't like, despite everyone else saying they like 
them), and then went off to the natural history museum, where we 
watched a presentation in the planetarium, learned about the 
evolution of whales (They're actually descended from land mammals! 
The old fossils have vestigial back feet.), and observed the many 
lovely forms of wildlife that Moodre is trying to kill for getting too 
close to Birkdale Manor, like mice. After we got back, I practiced 
singing, continued The Weeding (that was about two and a half 
hours total today), wrote a short note for Mrs. I for Stanford teacher 
appreciation, and worked on the Excel macro. Oh yes, and I also 
read TIME about the Iranian nuclear treaty. Fascinating! (Although I 
don't get the Republican argument that a treaty that puts Iran a year 
away from the capability of producing a nuclear weapon for fifteen 
years will create “a global nuclear arms race.” Can you say, “non 
sequitur”? 
In scripture reading, I read about King Noah and Abinadi. The theme 
from yesterday of the great impact of one very wicked or righteous 
person continues. Laman, Lemuel, and Noah all led entire 
civilizations astray because of their wickedness. Abinadi and Alma 
concerted whole peoples through their faithfulness. Be the good you 
wish to see in the world. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 73° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, JULY 21, 2015 AT 6:24 PM 

A good day today. I went to work and the Macro worked well. I 
finished all of the world bank stuff in around two hours instead of the 
ten or more it would have otherwise taken. I got some new things 
that I could potentially write a macro for and did that after I got 
home. I also started listening to an old audiobook from Dad about 
Winston Churchill. Two hours into the book, it was describing his life 
and eccentricities and suddenly said, “Prologue.” The whole two 
hours had only been an introduction! It's engaging and passes the 
time, though, even if it does have an entire chapter devoted to 
British Victorian society. This evening, I attended institute, where we 

talked about marriage and the family .. I find it ironic that a room 
full of single people could pontificate on this. 
In scripture reading, I read about how the wicked take the truth to 
be hard. A “hardening” at reviving counsel of guidance is usually a 
warning sign that we need a spirituality check. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° SUNNY 

WEDNESDAY, JULY 22, 2015 AT 6:08 PM 


A good day today. Actually, several things went wrong, but several 
things went well, too. A list, in the typical “give me the bad news 
first” style follows: 

Wrong 

I wore a hat to weed the garden this morning. After I we done, I put 
the hat sassy in the hat box in the main floor closet. As I went to put 
the box away, it bumped my (egregiously large and unstable) 
glasses. They fell off my head and on to the ground. When I picked 
them up, there was a large crack in the bottom of the right lens! 
After work, I had to take them in to LensCrafters with Dad (where I'm 
basically a regular). Thankfully, we'd gotten their insurance policy 
and could replace them for only $25 and a 10-14 day wait. 

Padre charged me with remaining the wifi on the laptop, which has 
been an utter failure so far. Still “Limited Connection.” 

Right 

I went home teaching with Dad to the Torontos, and even if we 
stayed for an hour and a half, it was a good reminder that a lack of 
wifi is not the end of the world. 

My macro performed excellently at work today. I also finally got past 
the part in my audio book about Victorian sex to where is actually 
discusses Churchill's life. 

My gospel lesson for today is quoted above. Don't freak out over 
the small stuff and be grateful for the good stuff, which is typically 
way bigger. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 70° SUNNY 

THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2015 AT 2:59 PM 

A good day today. Work went well. I finished the code book 
operations with the help of my macro and read a 60 page paper on 
developmental idealism among the Nez Perce Native Americans. 
That and Churchill were interesting. After work, I had a voice lesson 
with Amy, which went well as I learned about providing greater 
breath support. Voice lessons always unduly stress me out. I also 
looked at laptop reviews. (Mac = well-liked but wimpy.) and played a 
bit of Hearts of Iron 3, where my under-supplied British troops are 
slowly closing the noose around the Germans. I did a bit of weeding 
in the garden, which promises to be a lucrative, if time-consuming 
endeavor. Dad and I also watched “The Giver,” which was quite 
gripping and had good thematic effects, like the use of greyscale to 
show the lack of color in the world. This one definitively showed a 
“Jonas doesn't die at the end” part, while my interpretation of the 
book favors the evidence for “Jonas dies at the end and it's a fever 
dream.” 
In scripture reading, I read more about Abinadai and how Christ is 
both the Father and the Son. I think the biggest thing I learned is 
that we are heirs to eternal life. Where do heirs get their inheritance? 
From their fathers. Who has the ability to give eternal life? Christ. 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 82° MOSTLY SUNNY 

FRIDAY, JULY 24, 2015 AT 6:53 PM 

Un burn día hoy. Haha! Tripped you up there, didn't I? After my 
normal morning run, scripture reading, and weeding, Dad and I went 
to the Yankee Air Museum, a spruced-up hangar in Ypsilanti with 
planes covering WWI to the Vietnam War era. It was pretty 
interesting, and I learned about one Russian biplane that can fly as 
slow as 35 mph, making it to backwards in a tailwind! Afterwards we 
ate at a Medican restaurant in Ypsilanti that had fried avocado tacos, 
which were good. After returning home and a brief and futile battle 
to get my computer to connect to the printer, I downloaded and 
played “Xenonauts,” an X-COM like game where you defend earth 
from aliens with a multinational coalition set in the 70s. It's fun and 
seems to capture decent suspense as your forces storm out of their 
helicopter to surround a downed alien scout ship before getting 
picked off by the alien energy weapons, which are superior in range 
and firepower. (I learned that the hard way.) After playing for a while, 
I went out with the missionaries to visit Cindy, a Chinese lady and 
history major who has lived in the U.S. for four years. It seems like 
she's more interested in intellectually understanding the church than 
joining it, but we had a nice lesson where the Spirit was there, and I 
wasn't killed driving over or back, which was nice. We all went out to 
Plum Market tonight for shopping and food, then called Kent and 
discussed the great events of life, such as the austerity measures 
threatened by Madre Merkel for perceived overdrafts from “The 
Bank of the Madre.” The people will never accept them, I say! We 
also discussed trivialities like clothes. 
In scripture study, I read the famous chapter of Alma at the waters of 
Mormon. I don't think we really understand our baptismal covenant 
very well. Being a witness of God at all times include when you are 
alone. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 70° CLEAR 

SATURDAY, JULY 25, 2015 AT 8:47 PM 

A good day today. The war against the weeds continues. We will go 
on to the end! We will fight in the fields. We will fight on the 
sidewalks. We will fight in the lawns and in the gardens. We will 
never surrender! Well, maybe after we get paid we will. I also 
continued reading “Cane River,” where, after a brief stretch of 
prosperity, things seem to be going downhill again. I knew they 
would. We went out for lunch at a restaurant in Chelsea and toured 
the art fair there (where Mom purchased some soap). I also played 
some Xenonauts and improved my skill at not getting my soldiers 
killed. I like how they feel fragile, to a certain extent. They aren't 
invincible battle machines in super suits. They're just regular human 
soldiers trying to fight against a superior enemy, and are probably 
scared to death. Interestingly enough, the clothes I wore today 
coincided with Xenonaut colors: dark pastel blue shirt and grey 
shorts. Padre and I watched “The Imitation Game” on Alan Turing 
and his role with Enigma. It was engaging, although they overstated 
both his influence and Enigma's influence. We had burrito grain 
bowls for dinner, which were tasty, and Padre and I played some 
Mad Gab. 
In scripture study today, I learned that the the sooner we repent, the 
more consequences of sin we can avoid. However, we may still suffer 
the effects of past sins after repentance, like how Alma the younger 
and his people were brought into captivity to fulfill the words of 
Abinadi. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 75° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JULY 26, 2015 AT 7:09 AM 

I was quite busy and productive this week. I learned about 
programming. I went to insights, home taught with Dad, and went 
out with the missionaries. I did well in work. I made progress on my 
book. I spent time with family going to museums. I practiced singing 
extensively. I weeded the garden. I also played some computer 
games, although not that much because I didn't play at all on 
Monday or Tuesday, and played relatively little on Wednesday and 
Thursday. I read the scriptures consistently and prayed often. I had a 
good conversation with Kent on Friday. 
In this coming week, there are some things I'd like to focus on and 
improve. I'd like to talk with my parents more, both about day-to-day 
things, and questions and ideas I have, like “What are your thoughts, 
advice on dating?” and “How do you balance work, service, and 
recreation?” To do this, I'll have to make a conscious effort to put the 
book down at the dinner table and in the car. This will be easier once 
I finish my assigned Stanford reading, so I should make sure to 
prioritize that. I should also prepare questions beforehand so I know 
what to ask. 
I'd also like to work on the G-DSM as a fun and memorable project. 
I'll sent some examples to Kent and set a goal of one syndrome a 
day. 
I will make an effort to finish weeding by Monday or Tuesday. 
On Saturday, I can make baleadas for the family! 
I need to renew my temple recommend. 
Sometime this week I should schedule with Kent to get a Facebook. 
Although it's distasteful, it's a necessary connective tool and has 
missionary applications, like keeping up with my converts as well as 
friends who were on my email list. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 79° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, JULY 26, 2015 AT 7:08 PM 

A good Sabbath. Church went well. There was a little tender mercy 
of the Lord. I mentioned in the car ride on the way that I needed to 
renew my temple recommend. In sacrament meeting, it was 
announced that a member of the stake presidency was there to do 
temple recommends and that the Bishopric could do the first part in 
the second hour. So, I got my temple recommend interviews done 
all in an hour in one place. bishop Jibson mentioned something 
interesting during his interview with me. He said that, although we 
think of the sacrament or attending the temple as renewing our 
covenants, the real force that renews our covenants is the Holy 
Ghost, the Holy Spirit of Promise. Thus whenever we feel the 
influence of the Holy Spirit of Promise we can renew all of our 
covenants, baptismal and temple. This includes temple worship and 
partaking of the sacrament in the appropriate spirit, but it isn't 
limited to that. Our covenants can be refreshed when we receive 
remission of our sins through repentance or whenever we invite the 
Holy Spirit of Promise into our lives through righteous acts. The ideal 
is that our covenants are constantly fresh because we always have 
the Spirit to be with us. So, for an application, when I do my “pre 
Sacrament pondering” on Sunday, I should also consider if I'm 
keeping my temple covenants and how to better do so. 
Also in church I was asked to teach the young men next week: five 
minute Restoration here we come! 
After church we had a nice lunch of chicken and fried rice, and later I 
opened and read my letter to myself from the mission field. I felt like 
it was time. Interestingly enough, today is one day before the year 
mark of when I started the letter, so 364 days ago I began it. It was 
witty and contained jokes and asides that would only interest me, 
but was also raw and emotional at some parts, like describing how 
much I love my family. I was glad to see that I was on track with 
many of my aspirations. I fact, if I had one takeaway from this day, I'd 
say that I really, really want to always be temple worthy and active in 
the church. The alternative is too scary and guilt-filled. 
I also did some indexing and definitely received the guidance of the 
Spirit. The names were nearly illegible because of the handwriting 
(v=r=n=m) but as I struggled and plugged the letters into the name 
finder, I was able to decipher most beyond my natural ability. There 
was one last name that occurred for six different people on several 
different documents, probably written ten to twelve times in total, 
which I just couldn't figure out. None of the combinations made 
sense. Finally I decided that the first letter was a “G” and the letter I 
though was “f” was “p” and I got something that was a real last 
name. Hopefully it's correct. Someone had about fifteen ancestors 
helping me out right then. 
Later in the evening we played UNO Attack as a family, which is 
always a fun experience (okay, maybe it helped that I won). Now, to 
bed and on to the next adventure tomorrow! 
One last thing: when I went to the temple with Dad, I felt prompted 
to put Kent's name on the prayer roll, although I was a little unsure 
of doing so because he doesn't exactly have a “pressing ailment” as 
I categorized it in my mind. But I did it anyway, and Mom asked 
today if we'd put Kent's name on the prayer roll in the temple. Turns 
out that she and dad have decided to do that every time they go to 
the temple. I'm glad I followed that prompting. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° CLEAR 

MONDAY, JULY 27, 2015 AT 7:08 PM 

A good day today. Dad and I went back to the Museum of Natural 
History and “completed” it by spending at least two hours on their 
fossil exhibit. We then went to a Mediterranean restaurant that had 
good falafel and fair shish kebabs. Afterwards I added an entry in the 
G-DSM, played some Xenonauts, and practiced singing. This 
evening, Dad and I watched “Catching Fire”, the second movie in 
the Hunger Games series. I thought it was good and true to the 
book, although a good third of the scenes are Katniss (justifiably) 
crying at the plight of her people. Hmm, besides weeding, that's 
about it for the day. Oh yes, and Wells Fargo said that my credit 
application is approved and I purchased my bike for Stanford. I knew 
I'd forgotten something! Tomorrow promises work, institute, and 
maybe a start on a class in Python. 
In scripture study today I read he story of the captivity and liberation 
of the people of Alma. One theme was the comforting sentiment 
that trials and all the pain we experience in life help us grow. Here's 
to growth. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° CLEAR 

TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015 AT 6:37 PM 

A good day today. Work went quite fast between a bit of coding and 
the Nez Perce bibliography. In the afternoon I practiced a bit of 
singing. I can never seem to get the same quality in individual 
practice as I can in a voice lesson. I don't know exactly why. Warm 
ups? Confidence? Focus? Anyway, after that I tried to learn about 
programming in Python but had difficulty finding the right course. I 
found something from an online book, but it seems rather contrived. 
Then I went to institute. I had to drive myself since Mom was out of 
town, but the trip was uneventful. After getting back I did yet more 
weeding and closed on the last chapters of Cane River. 
In scripture study today I read about everyone being incorporated 
into the people of Nephi. I was impressed with the empathy of those 
who wept for the people of Limhi's losses and rejoiced at their 
freedom. I don't think I typically have that kind of empathy when 
relating to others or reading their stories. I should develop it. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 75° SUNNY 

WEDNESDAY, JULY 29, 2015 AT 6:14 PM 

A good day today. Work went well and I was able to finish the 

bibliography and start on the contact sheet for the Nez Perce. I also 
finally FINALLY finished weeding. It took a total of 10 hours. Well, 
that's a pretty good pay at $20 an hour. I don't know what I'm going 
to do with all the money. Save it I guess. I also played a bit of 
Xenonauts and defeated the aliens attacking each, for now. I 
downloaded some new books since I also finally finished Cane River. 
However, I haven't started reading them. Now I'm watching a thing 
on the U-Boat war on the U.S. east coast in WWII. 
In scripture reading I learned about the change of Alma the Younger 
which shows how repentance is real and powerful but also painful. 
You can't expect to repent without going through pain. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 77° SUNNY 

THURSDAY, JULY 30, 2015 AT 5:46 PM 

A good day today. Work went well. I finished going through the 
bibliography for Nez Perce contact info and Internet stalking 
everyone to figure out their contact information, which I could do for 
80% or more of them. Amy rescheduled my voice lesson, so I spent 
the extra time reading “Earth Afire,” the second Orson Scott Card 
book in the Formic wars series. I started it yesterday and I'm two 
thirds of the way through. I also added an entry to the GDSM and 
practiced sight reading. Tomorrow we're planning on going to a 
Museum of Archaeology. 
In scripture study today I read about the sons of Mosiah going to 
preach to the Lamanites and King Mosiah establishing the reign of 
the judges. One important theme is, “Beware who you make your 
king.” That's symbolic of our personal pursuits as well. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 79° SUNNY 

FRIDAY, JULY 31, 2015 AT 6:25 PM 

A good day today. I found out that I didn't get into SLE, which is 
mildly disappointing because Kent and Mom hyped it so much, but 
there's nothing I can do about it, so there's no use pouting. I also 
went through the extensive course log for Intro Seminars at Stanford 
and PWR courses. Dad and I went to the Museum of Archaeology at 
the U of M where they had a mix of Egyptian, Greek, Roman, and 
Etruscan artifacts. (Part of them came from the same semi-Hellenized 
region of Egypt). It was cool to see the cross-cultural intersections. 
Apparently the ancients were obsessed with sex and fertility, not 
unlike society today. We had lunch at an Indian Restaurant, which 
Dad protested was incongruous with our Mediterranean expedition. 
I contributed more to the G-DSM, and finished reading Earth Afire. 
Card did that nasty thing where he ends on a cliffhanger. I'll have to 
get the next book tomorrow. We also played some UNO attack this 
evening, which was divertido. 
In scripture study today I read a very long commentary on Alma 1 
and priestcrafts. I think the reason that people like priestcrafts is the 
same reason they like kings. It shifts the responsibility for their 
welfare and salvation to someone else. That's basically Satan's idea, 
right? Take away our freedom in exchange for “security.” (The 
problem being that being secure to do nothing isn't an attractive 
lifestyle.) G'night. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° SUNNY 

August 2015 

SATURDAY, AUGUST 1, 2015 AT 2:50 PM 


A good day today. Quite busy. Mom and I made a run to not one 
but three stores in search of groceries. I'm too tired and frustrated to 
write tonight. I'll make the rest of the entry tomorrow so I don't 
break my phone doing it. 
Okay, it's tomorrow and I'm a bit calmer. After the grocery run we 
had lunch at Zingerman's and I launched into ranking IntroSems and 
PWR classes and writing essays on why I'm interested in them. I took 
a brief break to play Xenonauts and then launched into cooking for 
Sunday with Padre and Madre. I focused on the Strawberry 
Chocolate Marble Cake. After baking it, we had scripture reading 
and talked to Kent. Then I frosted the cake with Madre and we had 
to make more frosting. We finished at 11:00 at night! It was 
ostensibly a very productive day, but I ended up rather frustrated. In 
scripture study I read about the unifying influence of God as 
opposed to Satan's dividing influence. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 82° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 2, 2015 AT 6:39 AM 

I was kind of frustrated near the end of this week, despite doing a lot 
of different things. Sometimes I feel that no matter how much I do, it 
just creates more for me to do and I can never do enough to feel 
satisfied. I didn't play too much on the computer this week, although 
I did some. I don't think I vented my frustration on any family 
members, which was good. I still need to talk more openly with my 
parents although I'm often at a loss for words. To solve this, I will 
write down questions and conversation starters in the notes on my 
phone. I think doing service is one way to combat the unproductivity 
frustration, so I need to search more diligently for service 
opportunities. At the very least, I can index during the week. I 
improved this week on not counting time during scripture reading 
and feel like I was decently focused, although not stellar. As for my 
thoughts, I worked to keep them clean, although tempting thoughts 
and bad words sometimes came into my mind. The best response is 
to focus on something good and uplifting. I am glad to be worthy of 
a temple recommend, desire to stay that way, and look forward to 
going to the temple this Friday. Today, I should write Elder Young if I 
can find his email address. Projects always help me feel productive 
and focus my energies, so my goals this week should include 
working on the GDSM and finishing the essays for IntroSems. The 
sooner I can square away the Stanford stuff, the better. To create a 
sense of accomplishment, I can try to make a daily list of a few things 
from my “To Do” list that I want to complete. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 70° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 2, 2015 AT 5:31 PM 


A good Sabbath today. It was fast and testimony meeting. Dad bore 
his testimony on how God is our loving Heavenly Father. In third 
hour, I taught the young men about simplifying and intensifying, 
demoed the five minute restoration, and did role plays. It went 
alright, although the youth were somewhat comatose and I should 
have included a story. After church we had a glorious lunch with 
Greek orzo and salad and the strawberry chocolate marble cake. 
After lunch and cleanup, I unlocked my mission emails from their evil 
.mbox format and stored them as .txt files. I wrote Elder Young, did a 
bit of indexing on Peruvian birth records, and wrote my part of the 
family journal. Now we're sitting down for a game of Apples to 
Apples. 
Today in scripture reading I pondered what the aggregate of my 
choices reveals me to be. Do they show that I love my family or just 
tolerate them? Do I live the gospel because I want to or because I 
force myself to? 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 84° SUNNY 

MONDAY, AUGUST 3, 2015 AT 5:49 PM 


A good day today. Busy. I woke up to find that my computer 
downstairs was still backing up, so I used Dad's computer to write 
my last draft for the IntroSems: physics meets Time in political 
science. Afterwards I cleaned out my wardrobe and we charged at 
the mall to get my glasses (for the third time, they're relegated to a 
backup pair). We then had lunch at Bravo! and Dad and I went to 
Best Buy to get my laptop (I wanted to get as much done as 
possible). I settled on a 15 inch HP with 1 TB hard drive, 8 gigs RAM, 
a dedicated graphics card and a little more than seven hours of 
battery life. After getting back, I stated setting up the computer and 
had a voice lesson with Amy, which went well. Afterwards, Dad and I 
watched “Catching Fire Part 1” of the Hunger Games series, which 
was quite engaging, although I got “The Hanging Tree” song from it 
stuck in my head. I then prepared baleadas for dinner, complete with 
scrambled eggs, quest fresco, and avocado. They were quite 
delicious (although they lacked hot sauce or pickled jalapeños). After 
dinner we read scriptures and then Kent called so we could 
coordinate about Disney. I can't believe that some of the restaurants 
are already fully booked in December! Afterwards we had to set up 
my Facebook. I've known that I'd eventually get one for several 
years, but I'be put off the inevitable as long as I can. It's distasteful 
but necessary. Nevertheless, it put me in a foul mood the rest of the 
night (which wasn't long since it was already 11:00). 
In scripture study I read Alma 4 about how testimony changes us and 
we have no right to persecute those who believe differently. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 73° MOSTLY SUNNY 

TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015 AT 6:01 PM 


A good day today. I tested out indexing on my laptop, which worked 
quite dandily (I even got someone with good handwriting, so it must 
be good luck). Work went well and quickly. I watched a documentary 
called “Horse Tribe” on the Nez Perce and this one Navajo guy who 
works as their horse trainer/ youth counselor but then gets drunk 
and kicked out and he whole program goes to a shambles. 
Eventually everything recombobulates though. I started creeping on 
all the Nez Perce mentioned in the program, but was interrupted by 
Kailey asking me to make some checksums on the education data to 
make sure it had been entered correctly. I did that the rest of the day 
and learned about Winston Churchill and Irish home rule. After work 
I practiced singing, defended the earth against aliens, and went to 
institute where we discussed being comforters and prayer. I want to 
imagine what Christ would pray for as I pray and seek to know God's 
will, rather than just accept it. That point was something that 
impressed me when I was reading about conversion in Alma 5 this 
morning. 

3877–3919 W LIBERTY RD, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 5, 2015 AT 5:52 PM 

A good day today. I downloaded Steam on my laptop and am 
currently downloading Shogun 2: Total War to tests its graphics 
capabilities. Work went fine. We had a project meeting in which we 
discussed the education data proposal and data availability. One 
result of the meeting was that I was asked to redo all the World Bank 
stuff that had been done from the website with the macro. Since the 
macro draws from the actual data file instead of the website, it's 
faster, more accurate, and more complete. I was also warned against 
the dangers of switching data sets, despite the fact that switching 
was probably the right thing to do. Anyway, after I got home, I 
practiced singing and defended earth from aliens. Padre was 
extremely curios about whether my laptop had adequate graphics 
and processing capabilities, so after I finished downloading the 
game, I tested it in a battle, which I won. However, it kept me up 
until after 11:00. 
In scripture study I learned about how revelation through the spirit is 
more powerful than even a visitation from an angel. 

5088 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 73° SUNNY 

THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015 AT 4:46 PM 

A good day today. Work went well. I finished all of the World Bank 
data in about two hours. If I hadn't had the macro, it could have 
taken several weeks and been less accurate. Hooray for macros! 
After work, I had a voice lesson, which went well. I also watched s 
NOVA episode on why there's mathematics in the universe with Dad. 
In scripture study today I read from Alma 8 and found it interesting 
that Alma didn't get a visitation from an angel when preaching or 
when baptizing a bunch of people, but rather when he was trudging 
away from Ammonihah, rejected. So, when we're going through 
difficult times, it can be a forge for revelation. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 73° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 7, 2015 AT 6:26 PM 

A good day today. We went to a session in the temple this morning, 
which is always nice. Afterwards we are at Lux, an American 
restaurant nearby, and mom and I got burgers. Upon our return, I did 
a bit of weeding and watering and then I organized boxes in the 
dungeon. Afterwards, padre and I watched “Maleficent”, the 
retelling of the Sleeping Beauty story. Madre and I then went out for 
a grocery run to Plum while Padre went to Meijers. I also started 
reading “Earth Awakens” of Card's “Formic Wars” trilogy and 
started playing a puzzle game I got a while ago called “The Talos 
Principle” the gameplay/ atmosphere is similar to Portal, post 
apocalyptic isolated testing facility with a near silent protagonist (in 
this case, a robot) and a godlike “voice from the sky” as an 
instructor. Actually, the voice from the sky is very much like God, and 
is identified by the Hebrew word for God that Latter Day Saints use 
to refer to the Father. In fact, the story is reminiscent of Eden. You're 
placed in this isolated facility where you can't die (at least, not 
permanently) and given lots of islands with puzzles to explore. “Of 
every island you may freely explore, but if the tower, you may not 
explore, for in the day that thou doest, thou shalt surely die.” Of 
course, there's also another voice that gets into the computer 
terminals urging you to ascend the tower. Having just attended the 
temple that morning, it was eerily similar. We finished off the night 
with a nice few rounds of Uno Attack. 
In scripture study today, I learned from Amulek's preaching in 
Ammonihah. I was impressed with Amulek's little-known sacrifice for 
the gospel. He mentions in his opening remarks that he has much 
family, friends, and wealth. He presumably loses the wealth when 
he's kicked out of Ammonihah for preaching and may also have lost 
family and friends either when the wicked people burned the 
converts or the Lamanites leveled the city. It thus makes sense why 
later in the Book of Mormon it describes how Alma consoles him. 
Amulek was a brave man. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 68° CLEAR 

SATURDAY, AUGUST 8, 2015 AT 7:01 AM 


A good day yesterday. (I'm actually writing this on Sunday because I 
was lazy and didn't write it yesterday, bad Gordon!) after going 
through some Stanford deadlines and revising my IntroSem essays, 
Dad and I went out for lunch at the Melting Pot. Mom was traveling 
in Vancouver and is still away today. (Guess what we're having for 
lunch. How did you know it was steak and potatoes with a prepared 
Caesar salad? In the vein of random things, I forgot to mention on 
Friday that I'd gotten into FroSoCo. Yay!) After lunch we went to the 
University of Michigan art museum and looked at art and modern 
art. There were some interesting pieces like one depicting a fallen 
British general in the classical fallen Christ pose. There was Leo a 
statue made out of AK-47s from disarmament in Cambodia and 
paintings made of broken dishes. Yup. After returning and playing 
around a bit, we had Kraft Mac and Cheese for dinner and called 
Kent, discussing WME things like the relative merits of the Apple 
watch as compared to the Pebble watch and the encoding 
techniques used by chip credit cards. After the fall, Dad and I played 
Pandemic and won handily because we were on the “introductory” 
level. In fact, we not only cured all the disease but eradicated all of 
them. Yay! 
In scripture study, I read about the lawyers in Ammonihah and their 
monetary system and how they stirred up conflicts among the 
people because their object was “to get gain.” It makes me think 
“What is my object in life? Is it really eternal life? Or do my actions 
show that it's playing computer games or having fun or something 
else?” That's an important point to ponder. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 68° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 9, 2015 AT 7:15 AM 

Heavenly Father answered my fast and prayers and helped put me in 
a good mood at the beginning of the week. However, I still feel like I 
played too much on the computer and have that “ate too much 
dessert” feeling about it. I'm not sure if that would go away if I 
transferred that time to other recreational activities like playing with 
Dad or watching a movie or reading a book. I could do more to work 
and get all my Stanford stuff done, and I could study more 
programming, which may help me feel more productive. However, 
I've noticed that I get frustrated if I just work all day. Today I'll talk 
with Dad about those conflicting feelings to get his perspective. I 
want to converse more openly with my parents, but I'm kind of out 
of practice since I couldn't really talk to them for two years. I try to 
ask them for advice and sometimes it works and sometimes it 
doesn't, and sometimes I just end up staring at their faces. I guess 
it's all a matter of starting so the habit is natural. 
I need to write in my journal every night instead of sometimes 
waiting until the next day. Be aware of the Lord's hand in my life as I 
write. after writing, review the list of things I have to do tomorrow to 
ensure productivity and good use of time. Ask God in prayer to bless 
and inspire me as to what to to each day and to approve helps s that 
I have set forth. Of course, everything isn't negative. I did a good 
job at praying before using the computer this week (although I 
should include in those prayers inspiration to not use it too much) 
and I think I did a good job spending time with Dad, choosing to 
watch things, go places, and play games with him instead of being 
alone. Thank him for always being willing to spend time with me, 
and be sincere about it. This week I want to invite Amy to come to 
church to hear me sing. If she says yes, great! If she says no, at least I 
invited her. I can use my morning scripture study time to practice the 
invitation. This week I tried to serve by indexing and goi g to the 
temple. I can continue to index this next week. What other service 
opportunities can I take? 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 9, 2015 AT 6:21 PM 


A good Sabbath today. The talks in church were on the temple. The 
second speaker talked about the mutual cause-effect relationship 
between malnutrition and diarrhea, then compared to to the cause-
effect relationship between holy places and spiritual experiences. 
Holy places like the temple can help us have spiritual experiences, 
while our spiritual experiences and attitude make a place holy for us. 
That puts the responsibility on us to make our temples or homes 
give us sacred experiences instead of expecting the place to do it 
for us by its very nature. In second hour we discussed Acts 6-9 
including Steven, diversity, and Saul. In the diversity discussion, there 
was this minor scuffle between a few conservative voices that said 
“Diversity leads to apostasy” and the liberal voices that said 
“Diversity is our strength. Love everyone!” I found this division 
somewhat ironic because the topic of discussion was accepting 
others with differences, but the distraction was minor and it was a 
very good discussion overall. After church we had our traditional 
steak, potatoes, and prepare Caesar salad lunch since Mom's still 
gone. Later I wrote my family journal entry, provided a “How to Do 
Your Family Home Evening” document for Elder Young, and did 
some indexing. I got this massive Spanish census where each page 
can have 40 or 50 names and there are ten pages, so I expect I'll be 
working on that for a while. I also read my Patriarchal blessing for 
scripture study. It gives me a lot of reason to have optimism and 
hope in the future. This evening, Dad and I watched “Meet the 
Mormons” while I did some additional indexing. The candy bomber 
and the humanitarian are always my favorites. The missionary mom 
part always gets me, though. It lands kind of close to home. I had a 
dream last night that after serving my mission for a year and a half, I 
got some kind of leave to go home to visit my family for a few 
months, but then I had to go back out to finish my last six months of 
my mission. The prospect of being separated front my family again 
was not a pleasant feeling. Not to say that my mission wasn't a great 
and powerful experience, but I am really glad to be back with my 
family. 
Something brought up in third hour was the story of the prodigal 
son. I feel the Spirit while reading of how the Father, listening to his 
son confessing “I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and 
am no more worthy to be called thy son.” had compassion on him 
and fell in his neck and kissed him. I reflected on the times that I 
have passed through sore repentance and have wanted to repeat 
the words of the prodigal son, but Heavenly Father has had 
compassion on me. I was reflecting on it again as I prayed tonight 
and it moved me to tears. I just want to do my Father's will so I can 
be with Him again. In that same prayer I was worrying about Kent, 
and I think that story might contain answers, and hope. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° CLEAR 

MONDAY, AUGUST 10, 2015 AT 5:14 PM 

A good day today. I did some Stanford stuff and submitted my PWR 
rankings. At noon, Dad and I went to the Jiffy Plant in Chelsea for a 
free tour. They gave us a free sample and some goodies, and it was 
interesting to see the machines up close. (Up close and very loud). I 
also ordered a new Kindle and cover on sale, which should arrive 
around Wednesday. Later Dad scrounged up the second Hobbit 
movie and we watched that. I actually enjoyed it a lot, more than the 
first one. Maybe because my expectations were lower than the first 
one. 
I listened to some scriptures while running on the twaddler so I 
learned about Alma talking to Zeezrom and belief perseverance. 
When threatened, we have a tendency to dig in and resist rather 
than reflecting and repenting. Don't do it! 

3939 JACKSON RD, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 73° SUNNY 

TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2015 AT 5:31 PM 

A good day today. Work went well, although I almost ran out of 
things to do after I finished cataloging the Nez Perce from Horse 
Tribe. Luckily Linda found some more factors I can use to find more 
Nez Perce, so I kept busy. After work I did a bit of singing and 
submitted some of my IntroSem preferences. However, two of them 
had extra questions, so I have to draft responses to those. Dad and I 
went out to dinner at Qdoba's since he needed to pick up Madre's 
laundry. Afterwards He took me to institute, which was the last class 
for the term. We discussed President Monson's talk on the temple. 
In “The Talos Principle” I discovered that the overseeing program is 
trying to prevent the completion of the process so it doesn't get 
deleted. That means I have to get to the top of the tower… 
Scripture study taught me about the importance of who I am 
becoming and not just what I do in preparation for judgement. 

SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 75° CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 12, 2015 AT 5:20 PM 


The picture explains my whole day.
Goodbye. 

Okay, I'll elaborate. Work went well, we had a meeting in the 
morning. I didn't contribute much. I had trouble connecting to the 
Internet, so I spent part of the meeting troubleshooting that. I did a 
mix of Nez Perce and education variables and had lunch with Dad at 
the Grizzly Restaurant. After work I practiced briefly with Sister Thiele 
at church for my song. My Kindle arrived and it set it up, very sleek 
and easy to read. I also had Bi Bim Bop at Bell's Diner. 
In scripture study, I learned that we can't dictate when or how the 
Lord gives us aid. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° SUNNY 

THURSDAY, AUGUST 13, 2015 AT 4:39 PM 

A good day today. Work went well. I finished coding another 
variable and did more Nez Perce stuff. I don't know how much info 
Professor Thornton wants, but I'm up to eleven pages. I also had a 
voice lesson with Amy, which went fairly well. My run-through of 
“There is a Balm” song went well. I also invited Amy to come to 
church to listen, and she said she may be able to. I also did some 
Stanford stuff and played “The Talos Principle”. I also finished book 
3 of the “Earth Awakens” series. I don't know if there's going to be 
another book or series… 
In scripture study, I continue to admire Amulek's for abandoning his 
livelihood and family to do the Lord's will. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 79° SUNNY 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 14, 2015 AT 7:29 PM 


A good day today. Dad and I wentto not one, but three museums in 

Ypsilanti: 

1) the Fireman Museum (quite interesting into to learn about their 
various boilers, hoses, and extinguishers, although I wish they had 
more modern equipment) 
2) The Antique Car Museum (Meh. All the cars looked the same and 
they didn't have any explanation of how the mechanics worked, so I 
was lost) 
3) the Ypsilanti Historical museum (moderate. It was a restored house 
that had some cool stuff, but I was also tiring. The picture's from 
there.) 
We ate at Maíz, the Medican restaurant there, and I got the 
chimichanga of doom. 
I also finished playing “The Talos Principle.” I climbed the tower! I 
liked the ending, it was satisfying and not depressing. The game is 
very well made, although I still prefer Portal 2 because I like the 
humor and philosophizing about the nature of humanity is not my 
forte. My perspective is that all the questions about the nature of 
humanity in the game were moot because all humans were dead, 
therefore, whatever imitation we could conjure up would be as close 
as we could get, and would have to be considered “human.” If not 
the old human, at least the new one. 
In scripture study, I learned about Ammon going to King Lamoni. It 
impressed me that he called his fellow herdsmen his “brethren,” 
even though he'd just met them and they are Lamanites. Charity and 
inclusiveness are good traits to cultivate. 
5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° SCATTERED STORMS 

SATURDAY, AUGUST 15, 2015 AT 4:56 PM 

A good day today. I spent most of the day doing various forms of 
work, which is ironic since it's Saturday. I washed the barriers, made 
cupcakes, and helped Mom prepare for Sunday dinner. I also took 
Alcohol and Sexual Harassment Education for Stanford which was 
billed as taking two hours but actually lasted more like four. I tried 
playing a few games, but I couldn't decide what to play in the hour 
or so I had before dinner and Kent's call, which I am waiting for right 
now. 
In scripture study I read about Alma preaching to Lamoni. I was 
impressed with how he was obedient in all things, from the Lord's 
commandments to caring for the king's horses. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 81° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 16, 2015 AT 6:30 AM 

Positive: 

Did some indexing during the week. 
Did lots of things with Dad 
Singing in church. Invited Amy. 
Good schedule discipline for going to bed, exercising, scripture 
study, singing practice. 
Hearing that Sigifredo is doing well made me a little more aware of 
the impact of my mission, for which I am grateful. 

Improve: 

Frustrated myself on Saturday by making myself work too much. 
Still feel like the “I worked too much” and “I played too much” 
categories overlap. It's difficult to find a balance. 
Need to talk with my parents more. Sometimes I don't know what to 
say. 
Had moderate focus while talking with Kent. Could pay more 
attention. Made me uncomfortable that he was planning my life, but 
I didn't have anything to say that would be appropriate. 
In general, I kept silent when I was frustrated and didn't vent it on 
others, but staying quiet was the best I did, I wasn't necessarily great 
in solving it in other ways. 
Keep foul language out of my mind to maintain the companionship 
of the Holy Ghost. Throw it out with the dogs! Pray for the 
companionship of the Holy Ghost consistently. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 70° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 16, 2015 AT 5:00 PM 


A good Sabbath today. Thankfully, everything went well while 
singing “There is a Balm in Gilead” in church, and I'm sure that 
Heavenly Father helped me sing better, which was nice because I 
was a tad stressed about it. We had a wonderful lunch (see picture) 
and I had a nice nap as well, along with watching some Bible videos 
(the Sunday School lesson was on Acts 10 and taking the gospel to 
the Gentiles, so I decided to watch that one). I wrote in my Evernote 
journal and did a tad of indexing (although Family Search already ate 
my massive 500 name file that I'd been working on the whole week. I 
tried to open it up in the morning to finish it before the seven day 
deadline, but it was gone.) that about accounts for the day. 
In scripture study I read about the conversion of king Lamoni's 
father. Basically the whole change happened because Ammon 
decided to show charity and humility to to king when he had him at 
sword point. Instead of asking for half the kingdom, he just asked to 
free his brethren and grant Lamoni liberty. That startlingly mild 
demand intrigued the king and changed to situation from a hostile 
one to a chance for the king to request missionaries! 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 81° SUNNY 

MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 AT 5:05 PM 

A good day today. Fairly relaxing. I did a bit of Stanford stuff and I 
defended the earth from aliens in Xenonauts. For lunch, Dad and I 
went to Juicy Kitchen, an organic cafe, which was quite good. I had 
the quiche, it was quite yummy. Afterwards we saw “The Man from 
U.N.C.L.E.” A spy flick set in the Cold War. It was a good spy movie, 
In scripture study I learned about Aaron teaching King Lamoni's 
father and the Anti Nephi Lehies. I was impressed with their humility 
and how they were grateful even in the face of impending death. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 73° SUNNY 

TUESDAY, AUGUST 18, 2015 AT 7:42 PM 

A good day today. Took care of business. Had a voice lesson, got a 
flu shot (which ached terribly but was fine the next day), and weeded 
the garden. I also finished “The Last Lion” only to discover that the 
whole 40 hour affair was just one book and that the only audio copy 
of book 2 had just been checked out from the library. After searching 
feverishly for a free version and then for alternatives, Madre finally 
appeared like a Deus Ex Machina and said that she'd authorize the 

purchase of book 2 for my education. ........ 
In scripture study I read about Ammon glorying in the Lord and 
thought about why it was so hard and thought about my mission. 
Sometimes good things have to be hard. 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 73° CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 19, 2015 AT 4:11 PM 


A good day today. We had a meeting in the morning at work and 
then Dad and I went out for lunch at Mezes Greek grill. Actually, 
before work I did some weeding and listened to “The Last Lion ” 
volume 2, which was good except they switched narrators to a guy 
with a nasally voice. After work, voice lesson practice, and a bit of 
play, we went to the store to restock on fruit, then got dinner from 
the sushi restaurant. (Hence the picture.) after that we watched the 
last Hobbit movie. It was good, although not as great as he Lord of 
the Rings. I still remember playing “hotel” when I was young and we 
lived in Texas and getting some Marie Calender's Chocolate Satin 
Pie while watching the animated “Hobbit”. Ahh, the memories. (The 
songs there were better too!) 
In scripture study today, I learned about the great divide between 
the righteous and the wicked. The gospel is the great divide that 
allows some people to by happy in trials. 

283 S ZEEB RD, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 82° SUNNY 

THURSDAY, AUGUST 20, 2015 AT 12:39 PM 

A good day today. It was kind of different because I was interrupted 
in my weeding by Padre coming out in his PJs and telling me that he 
had to go to the doctor to check out his headache and that Madre 
would bring me to work an hour early, so I had to rush to the shower 
and Madre packed me a breakfast (which I ate in the conference 
room of he dean's suite) while I packed my lunch. On the way over, 
Mom gave me one continuous rant on the “statement” on gays read 
in church over a month ago. She was not impressed that the bishop 
didn't give a compassionate preamble to the first presidency 
message even at the urging of the relief society president. She 
expressed her displeasure is no uncertain terms, using the words 
“bigot” and “insensitive” liberally (not necessarily directed toward 
the Bishop). I think she was in a bad mood because of Dad's 
unexpected doctor visits. (It seems to be nothing, just a floater in the 
eye.) work went fine and I finished a draft of the Nez Perce contact 
sheet. I don't know exactly what I'll be doing next week, but I am 
nearing the end both of work and of my stay in Ann Arbor. It's gone 
by so fast. (I don't know why my mission couldn't have gone by so 
quickly.) Anyway, after work I practiced singing and played and Dad 
and I went out to El Harissa for dinner. (He made me drive because 
his pupils were still dilated. Mom seemed to be in a better mood 
when she got home. We discussed the problem of Enos's 180 year 
separation from his grandfather and 120 year separation from his 
father Jacob. Either they are both incredibly long-lived, there were 
multiple as Enoses, or Enos was actually Jacob's grandson. So that's 
what I learned in scripture study. Oh yes, and don't deny the Christ 
because you haven't seen Him. There are a lot of things we haven't 
seen that we believe in, like China. 

401 THOMPSON ST, ANN ARBOR, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° HAZE 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 21, 2015 AT 12:44 PM 

A good day today. I finally finished weeding this morning. Afterwards 
I did a bit of indexing and then Padre and I went to the Detroit 
Institute of Art, which was interesting, although art is not my forte. 
We had a nice lunch at the cafe there and I got the onion risotto. We 
stayed until about 3:00 in the afternoon. I then fruitlessly searched 
for a new game, but never was able to decide if there was one I 
wanted. After going out for dinner at Panera and to the store with 
Madre, we played some heads up. (Madre was not amused when 
she came in last with only 9 points to Padre's 10 and my 11. She 
kept wanting to “Kill the Padre!”) I then decided that I wanted to get 
the game “Starbound”, so I made my first official purchase on my 
credit card! 
In scripture study I learned about Alma's prayer in Alma 31. I was 
impressed by how Alma prayed for the ability to weather the 
afflictions he knew that he would face instead of just praying that 
everything would be easy. Such is life. 

MI-14 W, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 77° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SATURDAY, AUGUST 22, 2015 AT 8:27 PM 

Good day. Washed berries, made empanadas. Took a long time 
since they were mini. Played too much Starbound. Computer games 
are futile unless you learn something from them. Listened to 
Churchill. 
In scripture study, I liked the insight that we don't need all the faith 
in the world, just “faith unto repentance.” 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 61° CLEAR 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 23, 2015 AT 6:50 AM 

Had a fairly good week this week. I played computer games for too 
long on Saturday, but on Tuesday I voluntarily didn't play them at all 
as was productive in accomplishing various tasks. In fact, I made 
progress on Stanford items, the G-DSM, which is nearly complete, 
and work such as weeding the garden and making the empanadas 
this week. It had ups and downs, but I did have some good 
accomplishments. Hmm, sometimes I judge my day by how much I 
enjoyed it but my week by how much I accomplished, and those 
metrics can come into conflict. This week there continued to be 
tempting images,, which I tried not to let occupy my mind. I'd say I 
was mostly successful. The best thing to do is pray/ sing a hymn/ 
recognize that that thought it something I don't want to entertain 
and see the negative consequences. The computer games I play are 
quite clean, so I'd say the biggest danger zone is when I'm looking 
something up on the Internet. I did a good job this week of praying 
before using the computer and so want to continue that. I'd like to 
pray with more focus and sincerity and specifically ask for guidance 
and help not to waste my time or fall prey to temptation. I did a 
better job at keeping my thoughts full of clean language this week. 
Partly it's a mood thing, so I should think “I will have a good day 
today. I will not let X put me in a bad mood.” Additionally, repent 
immediately if I do have a bad word in my mind. Scripture reading 
went well. I experimented with a split of listening to the chapters 
and then reading the study guide and reflecting, which seemed to 
work well. I don't want to do all listening, so I should mix it up. 
For improved performance next week, I have a few things in mind: 


Today I will speak with my parents about the parental advice list. 
I write a list of questions I want to discuss. We pick one per day 
(or whatever time period), all ponder the answer a bit, and then 
talk about it. This allows me to think how to phrase my questions 
so I can be the most clear and direct, and it gives my parents 
time to compose cohesive answers. I will propose this today 
during scripture reading and start working on the list. 
Also today, I will prepare an analysis of my computer game 
usage: pros, cons, when it is a problem and when it isn't. This will 
go in conjunction with seeking advice about such things in the 
parental advice list. 
Today I will write Grandma Carol and Grandpa Kent, and soon I 
will write Grammie and Grandpa Davis, so so can stay in touch 
with with them and render service in different ways. 
Since I don't have institute on Tuesday, I'll do an hour or so of 
indexing then. I could even listen to a talk while doing so. 
Always prioritize parental interaction over other considerations. 
Actually listen. If they're doing something or communicating 
something important, take interest. 
5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 63° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 23, 2015 AT 6:41 PM 


A good Sabbath today. The talks and lessons in church were 
interesting. The talks were on Elder Packer's talk about the family 
and the plan of Salvation, but really conveyed personal experiences 
much more than the talk. The Priesthood lesson was “On Being 
Genuine” and we got good discussion on what that meant and why 
it's important. We had empanadas and Spanish rice for lunch, which 
was quite yummy. I also wrote my list of parental conversation 
starters and analysis of computer game playing. Conclusion: 
moderation is key. Mom and I went through some stuff in the 
basement and pulled up some old children's books. However, we 
weren't able to find “Alice and Greta”, which was one of Mom's and 
Kent's favorites. Guess who got tasked with organizing the boxes in 
the basement this week? 
In scripture study, I was impressed by how bad things consistently 
happen to Alma's converts, but he doesn't get discouraged because 
he knows that they will be “supported under trials and troubles of 
every kind, yea, and in all manner of afflictions” and God will deliver 
them (Alma 36:27). 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015 AT 2:07 PM 

A good day today. In the morning, I organized boxes and listened to 
more Churchill, then Dad and I went to Dino's Deli and Doughnuts 
for lunch, which he's been pushing all summer. I wasn't too 
impressed. The owner was grumpy and the food was mediocre. We 
did get dessert at a cupcake place where I ate the equivalent of a 
giant dressed-up ding dong. Afterwards we went to a nearby nature 
center and looked at their raptors, which were rescues, and went on 
a hike which took us near a defunct Eagle Project that was some 
enclosure that was supposed to examine the long term effects of 
deer grazing by fencing off a small area (with literally eight posts and 
some wire!) but unfortunately a tree had fallen on it, destroying the 

enclosure. This is the end of Eagle Scout Projects! .. 
After the hike I did a little more work for Madre's Army and Padre 
and I watched “Divergent.” I thought the movie was almost as good 
as the book, but I didn't like either of them as much as “The Hunger 
Games.” I also played a bit of “Starbound.” 
In scripture study, I read Alma's council to Helaman and was 
interested by how many times he repeated “If my keep the 
commandments ye shall prosper in the land.” 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 70° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2015 AT 3:52 PM 

A good day today. In work, I tried to convert a PDF to a word 
document so it can be converted back to a PDF to satisfy the 
National Institute of Health requirements for grant submission 
attachments. 
FIGHT THE FORMATTING MONSTER! 
FIGHT THE FORMATTING MONSTER! 
There's my slam poetry about my job. 
After work I did singing practice and talked with Grandma Carol and 
Grandpa Kent a bit on the phone. I also played Hearts of Iron 3 
trying to wrap up the long British campaign against Germany (since I 
started it before my mission, it's 2 ½ years and counting!). I'm 
getting close, I just needed supply ships to come through! Today I 
finally reached the coveted August 31st, 1943, in which my first new 
supply ships rolled out of the docks. The effect was decisive. With 
the ships more fully supplying my troops, the Italian front stabilized 
and began to reorganize. We've also had a major breakthrough on 
the French-Belgian Front, pushing all the way to Stuttgart, unifying 
the front with my landing force at Williamshaven, and creating some 
pockets where I was able to surround and destroy several German 
divisions. Now the Germans are pulling their troops from the Italian 
front to reinforce the Rhineland, which gives me a chance to 
counterattack at the peninsula. Take that Hitler! Besides HoI, we had 
dinner at Giardinos. Tomorrow is meetings. 
In scripture study I read about Corianton and the dangers of 
pornography. Just another example how how Satan exploits 
addicting tendencies to destroy lives. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 63° CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015 AT 5:37 PM 

A good day today. My second-to-last day at ISR was marked by 
meetings and more meetings. We had an education meeting in the 
morning, then Professor Thornton took us out to lunch at the cafe 
downstairs in ISR. Afterwards, I met with Professor Thornton and 
Linda to brief them on my info on the Nez Perce. We also discussed 
the sociology field in general, from the benefits of being able to do 
(almost) anything you want to do and study a wide variety of subjects 
to the frustration of competitive and bureaucratic grant application 
process. After work, I practiced singing and continued to throw the 
coalition forces in for the final assault in HoI 3. Victory draws near! I 
also went home teaching with Dad to the Quinns, which was good 
except Dad had us do a different lesson than the one I thought we'd 
use and had me teach it! It went fairly well though, because it was 
the lesson “On Being Genuine” that Mom had taught, so I was 
already familiar with it. 
In scripture study I learned about the Resurrection and I was struck 
by how what Alma didn't know didn't bother him because he 
focused his faith on the important things he regally knew. It's all in 
the mindset. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 63° CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015 AT 5:58 PM 

A good day today. Several things were finished. It was my last day at 
work, and to my own surprise, I finished up the PDF conversion 
process. (I was able to pull some text-readable PDFs of surveys from 
the web, convert them to word files, and then copy in the relevant 
material, which immensely sped up the process.) I also finished 
writing the G-DSM and printed it, which Madre is reading and 
laughing at right now. It's a fifteen page beauty. In HoI3, I defeated 
Italy, and although I haven't yet fulfilled all the victory conditions, I've 
ended the war in Europe, finishing a game nearly two and a half 
years in the playing (admittedly I was on my mission for two years, 
but the scale is still epic). So, lots of finishing. Since Amy can't come 
until Monday, I practiced singing for an hour today. Both the song 
and the sight reading went really well. We had dinner at Noodles 
and now we're testing the disk drive and external hard drive on my 
laptop. 
In scripture study I read more from Alma to Corianton on 
wickedness, happiness, and resurrection. One of my takeaways is 
that while sinful behavior may bring short-term pleasure, choosing 
long-term happiness can require sacrifices in the short term. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 64° CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015 AT 2:19 PM 

A good day today. In the morning, I finished up a pallet of goods to 
donate to the Salvation Army, and Padre drove them off. I played a 
bit of Starbound and lost a lot of money and some more HoI3 in 
preparation for the Japanese campaign reorganizing my legions. I'm 
considering starting up a game as Czechoslovakia. We had a 
delicious lunch at Juicy Kitchen (Breakfast Burrito Scramble), picked 
up some stuff for Stanford, and watched “Despicable Me 2”. It was 
alright. 
In scripture study I read about Moroni fighting Zerahemna. War is so 
terrible. It's sad that we get involved in it. I was impressed by how 
Moroni used both paths of revelation and action to solve problems. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 75° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SATURDAY, AUGUST 29, 2015 AT 8:57 PM 

A good day today. A lot happened. I did a bit of indexing in the 
morning while listening to more Churchill, and played altogether too 
much HoI (although I was successful in beginning my invasion of the 
islands of Southeast Asia. We went to the Stanford Frosh Sendoff, 
which doubled as lunch. I'd prayer to use my time there well and I 
think Heavenly Father answered my prayers because I ended up 
sitting next to two of the three returning alumni students, one of 
whom was interested in history, poly sci, and CS, so basically a clone 
of me! I also sat next to someone who'll be in FroSoCo and another 
person who'll be in SLE, so it was good to meet them. After the 
event and making brownies from a mix for tomorrow, we went to 
Mezzevino, a tapas place, for dinner. While there, we started 
discussing some of Gordon's conversation questions, specifically 
“What is a core story that helped define your identity?” I talked 
about finding out that Kent was gay, which led Mom and Dad to tell 
their stories about that and the process of Kent serving a mission. 
The conversation continued for an hour and a half after dinner. Mom 
talked about Bishop Smith pulling through and breaking down 
barriers to Kent's mission when it seems impossible. Dad mentioned 
his preparatory experiences of having a gay friend while on his 
mission in Brazil and being engaged to a lesbian woman before she 
broke off the engagement. Mom told of feeling the presence of her 
grandparents during a particularly difficult time and being inspired to 
tell Kent “I hope you can be a father because having a son was the 
best thing in my life.” It was all very stirring stuff and contrary to 
what one may expect, instead of the difficulties of being a Mormon 
family with a gay member, all of these experiences have 
strengthened our faith in God and his timing. So, that's my spiritual 
message for tonight. 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 30, 2015 AT 7:38 AM 

Pretty good week this week. I did well at consistently praying, 
although I should include more listening in my prayers. I should 
remember the concept of praying as Christ would so I don't become 
repetitive. Scripture study went well. I switched back to mostly 
reading instead of listening, and I think both are viable study options 
and I can vary them freely. I'm glad that I was able to work at ISR, 
and I think the Lord inspired me (and Dad) in ways to help me be 
more efficient, like making the macros or finding computer-readable 
survey PDFs online so I could finish my last project on the last day. I 
did a bit of indexing this week, although I'd like to do more or other 
service this coming week. I'm excited to be able to go to the temple. 
The G-DSM was a good creative effort, and I think the whole family 
enjoyed it. Speaking of family, it was good to be able to talk to 
Grandma Carol and Grandpa Kent and write them, and today I'll 
write Grammie and Grandpa. The Lord definitely answered my 
prayers at the Stanford event by helping me sit by the people who 
were the best for me to know. The “Advice List” has gone well so far, 
as sharing our core stories helped us all be “real” with each other. I 
guess that's a blessing of going home teaching to the Quinns with 
Dad this week, where we talked about authenticity and core stories. 
We should continue to discuss other items on the list. As for 
computer games, I was more aware of my playtime this week and 
tried to limit it to hour and a half blocks. I was moderately successful. 
Maybe I should use a timer. One thing I'd like to change is that if I 
can't decide what game to play, just go do something else like read 
my book. That will help me vary my activities. I should also make a 
list of any last places I want to go in Ann Arbor/ Detroit. Mom has 
seemed stressed by the last few days of her job, so I should see if 
there's any way I can help her (or at least not cause more stress). I 
should make them some nice little thing for their anniversary… 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 70° MIST AND FOG 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 30, 2015 AT 6:39 PM 


A good Sabbath today. Church went well. There was a performance 
of “Praise to the Lord” in Sacrament Meeting by the choir that really 
invited the Spirit. It gave me chills. Another of the hymns we sang, 
“God Moves in a Mysterious Way”, had a line that I thought really 
applied to our discussion last night about coping with Kent's coming 
out: 

Ye fearful Saints, fresh courage take; 
The clouds ye so much dread 
Are big with mercy and shall break 
In blessings on your head 

On reflection, I realized that the experience really had been a 
blessing for each of us, helping us to be more loving and authentic 
with each other, and to have powerful experiences with the living 
God. After church we talked about testimony-building experiences, 
and Madre brought up the need to persevere through yahoos who 
say and do offensive things. I mentioned the time that I talked to my 
parents about pornography as a real change in my life course. Hardly 
a week goes by in which I don't think about the powerful impact that 
had on my life's trajectory, or the beautiful feeling of peace I felt 
after talking with my parents and the Bishop as I knelt down to pray. 
After lunch and scripture reading, I wrote in Evernote and wrote to 
Grammie and Grandpa. I also tried to find pictures to do a little 
Animoto for Mom and Dad's anniversary on Tuesday. I'm still 
working on it though. Madre also gave me a big list for tomorrow, so 
I suspect that I'll be plenty busy. 
In scripture study, I pondered the two forces that make people want 
a king: a desire for power and a fear of responsibility. We all feel 
those temptations in our lives, which is why agency and attribution 
(as mentioned yesterday) are so important to make us responsible 
and humble. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 70° CLEAR 

MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 2015 AT 8:23 PM 

Too late to write much. Instayed up working on an Animoto for Mom 
and Dad's Anniversary. I also cleaned the fridge and pantry, shopped 
for Stanford at Bed, Bath, and Beyond, and had a voice lesson. Oh 
yes, and I did technical assistance for the Madre after a phishing 
crisis which causes both of us to need to change our passwords. 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 64° FOG 

September 2015 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015 AT 7:30 PM 

Not one of those days where everything goes my way. Finished 
packing boxes and sent them. Went out and ran errands with Dad, 
then the missionaries texted me and said that the lesson was on 
again, but by that time it was too late for me to get there, since We 
had more errands and lunch. I made major progress in HoI, winning 
two decisive naval battles in which I sank Japanese carriers with no 
losses (the only ones of the war), then I took a screenshot and my 
game crashed and I lost the progress. I converted the third Churchill 
book to an iTunes audiobook, but I had to try several times because 
it was an abject mess the first few times. I ended up having to 
manually label the 42 CDs. Kent also told Dad that he'd lost his 
driver's registration and needed to order a duplicate. Dad told me to 
do it. After many logins under both licenses, I wasn't able to find 
Kent's car. All of this would've been fine if it wasn't for the fact that 
when Madre got home and we told her about it, she blew up and 
started yelling and screaming about how Kent wasn't an adult. As 
the technical liaison in Kent's abstentia, I took a lot of this is tongue-
lashing. Kent eventually found the registration, it had been in his 
files all along and he'd just overlooked it. However, Madre then 
turned on me for accidentally scheduling a voice lesson too close to 
the temple trip. She eventually cooled off, but it's not fun to be 
yelled at, especially when you're trying to help someone. It's no 
good that this is the second day of it in a row either, after much 
yelling and screaming over the phishing incident. Anyway, all is 
forgiven. Dad and I also watched a short film called “The Butterfly 
Circus” about a man with no arms finding his place in life, which was 
good. 
In scripture study I read about Captain Moroni fortifying stuff. Big 
takeaway: the most dangerous and damaging dissent comes from 
within. Hmm, I wonder if we observed that today… 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 72° CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015 AT 5:08 PM 

A good day today. I did more work for Madre in the basement 
cleaning and organizing things and I did w bit of weeding. We went 
to lunch at TGI Friday's, got my wallet at the Macy's at the mall (and 
cookie cake), and ordered new earbuds. We also watched “The 
Lego Movie”, which I thought was quite amusing and better than 
“Despicable Me 2.” I finished reading “Nudge” and started “The 
Last Firewall”, which seems engaging but unfortunately more 
graphic than Hertling's last two books. I also began again The 
Weeding. 
In scripture study I read about Amalikihah's defeat. I was impressed 
by how merciful Moroni was to the invading armies. 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 81° SUNNY 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015 AT 6:14 PM 

A good day today. We got haircuts, I did weeding and started 
packing for Stanford, although I can't pack a lot of things because I 
still need them. I finished most of the things on the Madre's list as 
well. I read more of my book (actually finished it tonight) and 
listened to more Churchill. Dad and I started on a puzzle, “The 
Sovereign State of Euphoria”, my absolute favorite. 
In scripture study I read about the stripling warriors and was 
impressed with how the Lord was merciful to the Nephites because 
they were merciful to the Lamanites. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015 AT 8:01 PM 

A good day today. We went to the temple in the morning, which was 
very nice, and I received some impressions about school, everything 
from the importance of planning to finding friends I can trust. We ate 
out at the Italian restaurant nearby. I got a new book “Bury the 
Chains” by Adam Hochschild (Hoch as in “spoke” and schild as in 
“shield”, in case you're wondering.) He's my favorite writer of social 
history! We got stuff for Labor Day weekend (my last Sunday in Ann 
Arbor, eek!) played Scattergories (one person won each match) and 
worked on the puzzle. I also puzzled over beating various World War 
Two games, including petulant Japanese holdouts on both ends of 
the Philippines (one's a mountainous River area making it very 
difficult to attack. Additionally, it's supplied by a port so I can't starve 
them out. I can bomb them though…) That'll delay my invasion of 
Hong Kong, which isn't a bad thing because it gives me time to 
strengthen two additional marine divisions. Unfortunately, my carrier 
fleet tangled with the Japanese carriers (the one I would've sunk if 
the game hadn't crashed) and came out the worse for wear (no lost 
ships, but moderate damage). I don't know why enemy tactical 
bombers appeared in the battle thousands of miles from their 
nearest airbase… 
In scripture study I learned about the army of Helaman. I was 
impressed by their valor, which came not from patriotism, jingoism, 
or madhouse but from a belief that their cause was just and God 
would protect them. If I want to have valor, I should remember those 
things in the face of danger. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 70° MIST AND FOG 

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2015 AT 8:17 PM 

Grrrrr. Today started off well but ended bleh. I went on my longer 
run (18:40, a good time!), washed the berries, listened to Churchill 
(actually finished book two today. The guy reading book three 
unfortunately has an American accent and is the worst of the three 
narrators for the series.), cleaned the cupboard and played a bit of 
HoI with a successful invasion of China. After much deliberation and 
rejection by the Madre, we finally decided on a restaurant in Dexter 
for lunch only to find the wait too long, so we went to a nearby pizza 
place. After lunch I did weeding, treated the drainage ditch, and 
reviewed my finances. Padre was nice enough to pick up a laptop 
case for me while he was getting a pebble watch at Best Buy. It just 
barely fits my backpack, which is fortuitous. I was just settling down 
to read my book and drifting off to a nap and when Madre 
interrupted and told me that it was time to cook. A little ruffled from 
me pre-nap state, I got up and started cooking. Madre interpreted 
my silence and tiredness as grumpiness, and she kept asking me if I 
was grumpy so much that it got on my nerves and I became 
perturbed. This was exacerbated by the fact that cooking time rolled 
directly into Kent call time and Madre chose this moment to reveal 
her story about why she was changing jobs, which needed to be said 
but was not the right time for me to hear it. I'd already been tired 
before cooking, cooking made me more tired and grumpy, and the 
prolonged call made me extremely agitated. Add on top that I really 
haven't been in the mood for conversation all day, and you get a 
frustrating situation. Madre interpreted my attempts to avoid saying 
or doing anything offensive as tiredness while I was in fact the 
opposite. I'd just wanted a break for the past five hours and was 
annoyed I hadn't gotten one because all these things introduced 
into my schedule that I hadn't been able to plan for. By the time it all 
was over it was time to go to bed, since tomorrow's church starts 
early. I'm quite unhappy with the evening and despite trying 
everything from exercise to happy thoughts to calm down, nothing 
has had enough of an effect. Maybe sleep will change it. 
In scripture study I learned about Helaman, who didn't get annoyed 
like I did. (I knew I shouldn't have prayed to apply what I learned.) 
However, I'm not sure how the Lord will console me with the hope of 
being free to go take a rest… That seems rather selfish. Maybe I 
should adopt a more just cause. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 64° FOG 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2015 AT 5:22 AM 

It was good that I was able to go to the temple this week, although I 
would have liked to do some other form of service, like cleaning the 
church or helping the missionaries, but it didn't work out that way. 
Despite getting adequate sleep, I was rather tired in the temple. I 
should make sure to go to bed early the day before I go. At least I 
was able to do that on Saturday for church on Sunday. (I still got 
super sleepy though.) I worked a fair amount this week but on 
Saturday got seriously frustrated because the time that I'd set aside 
to rest around 6:00 pm was the time that Mom summoned me to 
work in the kitchen, which rolled into Kent's phone call, which rolled 
into scripture study, and then it was 11:00 and time to go to bed. I 
felt unduly perturbed by this and I think to root cause was a failure to 
communicate effectively about our plans. I really, really tried not to 
say or do anything mean, but I mostly came off looking tired. I can't 
say I'm looking forward to Stanford but I expect that after a few 
weeks I'll acclimate and enjoy it. The first few weeks of school have 
never been my favorite. Mom and Dad gave some good advice 
about finding good friends, setting routines and goals, taking 
appropriate breaks (and taking a break from computer games). 
Madre keeps asking me to comment on my going, but I really don't 
want to say anything. It's going to happen and that's that. I don't 
think that's the right thing to say though. I just feel more frustrated 
than I should be. Frustrated that I work hard and don't feel satisfied. 
Frustrated that I don't do enough meaningful work and blow my 
time. Frustrated by not feeling like I can effectively communicate 
with my parents despite numerous sincere attempts. Grrrrgh. Hmm, 
that's an interesting word. Kind of a good written interpretation of 
my feelings. No! Not Greg! Grrrgh! Autocorrect doesn't seem to 
agree. So, this week's goal is to get rid of the Grrrgh, or at least 
determine its source beyond random hormonal fluctuations. Maybe I 
just need to complain less, like like the positive pony in “The Lego 
Movie.” Maybe interacting with more people my own age will help 
prevent stir-craziness too. We'll see. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 64° MIST AND FOG 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2015 AT 7:45 PM 

Good Sabbath. Went to church. Many salads for lunch. Church at 

9:00 so took a nap. Wrote in journal. Talked to Aunt J and got 
investment advice, among other things. Played Sorry with the family. 
Everyone won once. Feeling nervous about going to Stanford. It'll 
pass… In a month tops. 
Read in scriptures about Captain Moroni and his doggedness in 
pursuit a just cause, he importance of empathizing with others, not 
isolating from them, and avoiding wickedness for success in my 
endeavors. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 73° CLEAR 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2015 AT 6:10 PM 


A good Labor Day today. There was a fair amount of labor involved. I 
weeded the garden, finalized the basement with Madre, cooked a 
glorious Labor Day meal (chorizo burgers), purchased a new printer, 
and tried to assure sufficient backups on my laptop. I also loaded a 
bit of Age of Wonders III to terrorize the world as an Orc Warlord. 
Still not as good as HoI3. It was hard to decide what to do with 
Padre, so we eventually settled on watching “Into the Woods.” Here 
goes. 
In scripture study I read about the end of the war (finally!) and the 
importance of resting and reorganizing after a major trial as Helaman 
did with the church. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 81° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015 AT 1:45 PM 

A good day today. I finished weeding and edging the garden and 
figured out that my Churchill book actually had a better narrator than 
I originally thought. I also did some packing, made some chocolate-
chip and blueberry pancakes for breakfast, which were yummy. I 
went to my voice lesson at the school of music and my run-through a 
with the piano were… less than stellar. I don't know if the issue was 
fatigue or tension or nerves, but I had trouble hitting some of the 
high notes that had been no problem only moments before. Grrrr. 
Well, I scheduled another lesson for Thursday, so hopefully 
everything will get straitened out then. To be honest, voice lessons 
and auditions are my least favorite part of singing, and so prefer 
choral to solo singing, so I've basically been focusing on the parts of 
singing I like least for the past several months, which probably 
clouds my judgement about it. 
In scripture study I learned about the evils of secret combinations. I 
assume that and analogous behavior in individuals would be lying or 
hiding things from others to appear better or get ahead, so I should 
avoid those things on a personal, and not just a national level. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 88° PARTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015 AT 4:55 PM 

A good day today. Dad and I went to the Detroit Historical Museum, 
which was interesting although at times it seemed like an 
advertisement for the city. Not all of the references to Detroit 
landmarks were significant to me, but it was still engaging. After a 
lunch at a nearby place called Chartreuse, we went to the Holocaust 
Memorial Museum, listened to a survivor speak, and toured the 
museum. It was very thorough and we didn't have time to see it all 
before it closed. I played a bit of HoI3 and encircled a number of 
Japanese divisions in western China. I also practiced singing and I 
think I managed to do better. 
In scripture study I read about Lehi and Nephi the sons of Helaman. 
They accomplished what the Nephite armies couldn't: reclaiming 
Nephite lands. Just goes to show that the Spirit can help us do 
greater things than what we could accomplish alone. 

4976 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 73° SUNNY 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2015 AT 6:07 PM 

A good day today. I played in the morning and had a voice lesson in 
he early afternoon, such went MUCH better than Tuesday. Yesterday 
I had a GBMB (Gordon Blake Major Breakthrough) in voice 
placement and I was able to continue the streak today, which was a 
big blessing from Heavenly Father helping assuage some of my fears 
about auditions. Later in the day I opened my account with 
Wealthfront and invested $500. Mom and Dad and I had a Gordon 
farewell dinner at Pacific Rim, which was good. After that, Dad gave 
me an inspiring father's blessing. I topped off the night by watching 
Apollo 13, which is my second favorite movie (after The Princess 
Bride). It's so inspiring to me how ordinary people can come 
together to overcome immense difficulties in the face of seemingly 
insurmountable odds. The success of the mission is just as much a 
tribute to human persistence and ingenuity as were the moon 
landings. Some day, I would like to go to space… 
In scripture study today I read more about Nephi and Lehi, also 
faced with seemingly insurmountable odds. One insight was from 
the declaration of a converted Nephite dissenter when their prison 
was overshadowed by a cloud. If we want the cloud of darkness to 
disperse from our lives, then we must repent and cry unto God until 
we have faith in Him. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 61° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 AT 6:24 PM 

A good day today. My last day in Ann Arbor before I head off to 
Stanford tomorrow. Pretty relaxed. Mom and so went to the bank to 
get some forms Medallion signed for transfer ship of custody of my 
DRIP stocks. Afterwards Dad and I had breakfast at Afternoon 
Delight. We'd wanted to go on another kayaking trip, but it was 
drizzling all day and the place we'd planned on going to was closed, 
so we watched “Ant Man” instead, which actually exceeded my 
expectations. I'm in the winding up scenes of HoI3. War had been 
declare on Romania and Bulgaria, the last two Axis powers, and I've 
seized the Korean Peninsula and ports, trapping the Japanese and 
Manchurian armies on the mainland. This evening, Mom, Dad, and I 
played one last game of UNO Attack (ie “Kill the Padre” and now 
I'm reading some old favorite children's books like “Tops and 
Bottoms”, “A Cloak for the Dreamer”, and “The Quiltmaker's Gift.” 
In scripture study I read about the corruption of Nephite society due 
to the Gadianton robbers. I was impressed that the beginnings came 
basically because the Nephites were prospering so much that they 
had no reason to remember God. This, life can't be one continuous 
summer. We need challenges to turn us to each other and to God. 
For all its horribleness, September 11th, fourteen years ago, did just 
that to many people. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2015 AT 4:21 PM 


An eventful day today, as I departed for Stanford. I went for a final 
long run down to Jackson street and made a new best time (18:19). I 
spent the morning squaring all the final items away for packing (I 
hope) and I read a last two children's books “Under the Big Sky” 
which I considered appropriate for going off to college, and “But No 
Elephants ”, which is appropriate for all occasions. We went out for 
lunch at the Carlyle Grill and then had scripture reading. Madre, not 
wanting to drive in football game day traffic, had gotten a car for us, 
so Dad and I said goodbye to her and headed off to the airport. It 
felt a little bit like 2013 all over again, saying goodbye to my family, 
off to some new place. However, the feeling passed and I settled in 
for the five hour flight to San Francisco. I watched “Paddington 
Bear”, which was quite a good movie and exceeded my 
expectations. I also read my book on abolition and listened to 
Churchill, and realized that I made the mistake of not downloading 
the latest issue of TIME before I lost WiFi access. After we got there, 
Kent picked us up. We checked into the Best Western and then went 
to dinner at a Caribbean Place, which was yummy. They had a little 
wait though, so we went to a nearby candy store, we we discovered 
the picture above. We got sipping chocolate for dessert and then 
conked out. 
In scripture study I read about Nephi prophesying of the murder of 
the chief judge. It was interesting that Nephi knew the “thoughts 
and intents” of the people's hearts. I wonder how I would act 
differently if others knew the thoughts and intents of my heart? 
Would I behave differently or try to change those intents? 

260 UNIVERSITY AVE, PALO ALTO, CA, UNITED STATES • 79° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2015 AT 8:48 AM 

A good Sabbath. We hiked the dish in the morning and ate at 
Stacks', a pancake place for brunch. The. Kent, Dad, and I all went to 
church at the Stanford Student Ward where I met some of Kent's 
friends like Chloe and Erica, as well as some other incoming 
freshmen such as Elijah, whose mom my mom had met, and another 
Frosh named Josh. Apparently there are 12 LDS freshmen coming in 
this year! After church, Kentre ditched and stole the car to stay over 
with Ghunbong and Padre and I wrote in our Evernotes and had 
dinner at Cooks Seafood Kitchen. We also called Mom and read 
scriptures with her. 
Speaking of which, in scripture study I read in Helaman 10:4-5 and 
pondered how my mission will continue to bless me in everything 
from giving me confidence and skills to excel and adjust at Stanford 
to having s firm “foundation in Christ.” 

1–81 EL CAMINO REAL, MENLO PARK, CA, UNITED STATES • 75° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2015 AT 9:22 AM 

Well, I've arrived! It was a good last week in Ann Arbor and I was 
able to do some final fun things with my family, from seeing movies 
to going out to eat to playing “UNO Attack”. It was good that I 
could spend time with them and that I get to be with Kent and Dad 
for a few days as well, so I'll try to make the most of it. Overall, I 
think so had a very good summer: learning things as a research 
assistant and about computer programming as well as reading 
books, visiting museums, and relaxing. I also set good habits of 
prayer, scripture study, journal writing, and exercising, which I'd like 
to keep going. I think I will take Mom's advice to have a hiatus from 
computer games for a few weeks while I adjust to Stanford and 
square away business matters. One thing I need to do is organize my 
thoughts and preferences on a spells groups, classes, etc so I can 
make informed, effective decisions about what I want to do with 
those things. I feel a disproportionate amount of stress about 
auditions, so I'll just have to deal with that. In addition to squaring 
away classes, I should focus on meeting people and just being 
authentic with them. If I don't want false friends, then I need to be 
authentic myself. I know that relying on the Lord during this time will 
help me to be happier and more successful than I would otherwise 
be, so do it! 

1–81 EL CAMINO REAL, MENLO PARK, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° CLOUDY 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 AT 9:28 AM 

Last full day with Kent and Dad. We did a shopping spree for school 
supplies at Target and Staples, had Vietnamese sandwiches for lunch 
and ate at Cream, an ice cream sandwich shop for dessert. We 
toured the Winchester house, which was more interesting than most 
random old houses both for its size and irregularities (windows in the 
floor, doors to nowhere, a seance room with one entrance and three 
exits, etc). After setting up some new accounts with Wells Fargo, we 
had dinner at Pampas, a Brazilian steakhouse. (No, we did not need 
a special bank account just for the meal! It was pricey though, but 
very yummy. In scripture study I was impressed by Nephi's humility 
that even though he had the sealing power, he still pleaded with the 
Lord to avert the war and change it to a famine. He was the opposite 
of the pride cycle described in later chapters 

1–81 EL CAMINO REAL, MENLO PARK, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2015 AT 11:47 PM 


First day at Stanford! Technically, the first day of New Student 
Orientation (NSO), which smacks of summer camp. Dad and I moved 
in in the morning. I am in the exact same room (probably the same 
bed) as Kent was. How crazy is that?! My roommate, Joseph, is from 
Kenya, and he's super nice. We stuck around for a fair part of the 
day. Dad and I had lunch at an Italian sandwich place, I got info on 
vocal music opportunities, and we registered my bike. Then there 
was convocation with many grand speeches and processions. 
Afterwards there was a FroSoCo introduction at our residences, then 
I said goodbye to Padre, which was kind of anticlimactic because I'd 
already bid farewell to every other member of the family and this 
isn't the first goodbye I've had with them. We had dinner, then some 
stuff mixing FroSoCo norms, FroSoCo chants, a performance by 
Stanford Fleet Street, and an invasion by the band that gathered all 
the Frosh in the quad for some sort of party thing. So, it's almost 
midnight and I'm going to bed. 
In scripture study I learned about the importance of remembering 
previous blessing while facing present needs. That allows us to be 
both grateful and faithful that these present challenges too, will be 
resolved. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015 AT 11:05 PM 

Another packed day. It seems like several days compressed into one. 
Hey, at least I'm not bored. In the morning we went to MemAud and 
something happened… But I don't remember what. Ah! We had our 
“First Lecture”, which was alma about the glories of a liberal arts 
education that makes you a better person and not just a better 
student. Afterwards we had a “sustainable zero-waste lunch” 
(complete with paper spoons), and then had breakout sessions on 
various topics. I attended one on good study habits and was 
intrigued by the fact that you apparently retain 40% more 
information if you review your notes within a day or so of taking hem 
than if you do so a week later. I'll be revising my notes. I also 
attended a social science courses intro and a session on Thinking, 
IntroSems, and PWR, because I have my “Big Data” intro ask this 
term (apparently 132 people applied and I'm only one of 16 
selected!) as well as PWR. After dinner we went back to MemAud for 
“Faces” discussing people's real-life struggles at Stanford, from 
being a transgender Latino to having a speech impediment. 
Afterwards we discussed in our dorms, divided by hall. The speaker 
who most impacted me was a Latina woman from a disadvantaged 
background who was the first in her family to attend a college, felt 
pressured to get a “paying job”, and was a person of faith yet 
conflicted about being lesbian. Since I've worked with Hispanic 
immigrants, am a person of faith, and have a gay brother, there were 
several touchstones for me in the talk. 
In scripture study this morning, I read about Samuel the Lamanite 
prophesying the destruction of the people unless they repented. The 
big problems were pride, a focus on wealth, and rationalization. I 
think those are dangers at Stanford, as the drive to achieve my best 
could devolve into credit-seeking, prideful tendencies. Of course, 
there are so many interesting philosophies at Stanford that it would 
be easy to choose one to rationalize away not going to church, 
keeping the commandments, or being an example of Christ. 
However, just like the people couldn't kill Samuel the Lamanite, I 
can't rationalize away my conscience, so listen to that. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015 AT 11:07 PM 


Another busy good day today. I almost thought I'd have a time to do 
a bit of reading for pleasure tonight before I realized that I needed 
to sign up for voice lesson auditions (why do you audition for voice 
lessons?) and review my course options once again for fall quarter. 
I'm just looking for one more thing to round our clients CS 106A, 
PWR, and my IntroSem. Unfortunately it looks like Psych conflicts. 
Anyway, today there were mini seminars by some professors in the 
morning. I attended one by someone who's majored in Chem but 
ended up as a History Professor. The big themes were: time invested 
in studies that don't end up to be your major or job isn't wasted if 
you use that mental discipline (or thinking structure) to inform your 
approach to solving current problems. I also went to one on AI 
because it mentioned Psych, but it ended up being mostly on 
machine learning. I remember that course scarred Kentre for life 
when he tried it. After lunch (which I accidentally had with a bunch of 
grad students and another across because there was food on the 
quad for the grads and I thought I needed to stay close before 
realizing that my phone has scheduled an event in EST, not PST) 
there was an advising session with Arik Lifschitz, our Academic 
Advising Director (AAD), who answered technical questions about 
majors. From that, I rushed to my own Pre-Major Advising meeting, 
where John Donahue blessed me and Talked about the purpose of 
PMAs (basically to bless freshmen), and I outlined possible futures, 

such as the CS+ major (I honestly have no idea if that is the right 
major for me, but I had to say something…) In the evening, we had 
Real Stanford, a student performance discussing the issues of sex, 
drugs, and rock and roll. Well, mostly sex, alcohol, and some other 
things. It was well done and scandy (including a song about 
condoms accompanied by the actors throwing them into the 
audience.) The issues needed to be raised though because they are 
real and present. Afterwards we discussed in our dorms. 
Actually this segues into my spiritual thought for the day, which 
doesn't come from reading about Samuel the Lamanite. Although 
some may view moralistic commandments as restrictive, personally 
I'm so glad that I don't have to deal with many of the harmful 
aspects of sex, alcohol, drugs, STIs, etc because of my abstention 
from alcohol and sex. It massively simplifies life and I don't believe it 
makes it any less rich. Heavenly Father knows what He's doing. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 AT 6:58 PM 


A good day today. Let's see… in the morning we had our Pre-Major 
Advisor group meeting, which was a bit of a rehash of yesterday in 
group form. I asked the question “What are common 
misconceptions about choosing courses and majors that freshmen 
have coming into Stanford?” One thing they do is underestimate the 
importance of personal connections, so Professor Donahue 
advocated finding a mentor in a field that's important to you. Oh 
yes, and the student connections are important too (I say that 
ironically as I sit in my dorm typing alone, since I really wasn't 
interested in the swing dance event. Been there, done that. But no 
fear, I'm going to an “Art in Your Dorm” event later tonight, then to 
the NSO party, which is why I'm writing this earlier so I don't have to 
do it at 1:00 am.) Wow, that was a long parenthetical. Anyway, after 
that we went to the Three Books discussion, which was quite 
engaging. I really liked Tobias Wolfe's comment to the effect that 
stories do not happen to us, rather this jumble of events we call life 
happens to us and we use stories to make sense of it. Afternoon 
lunch I went for AUDITION FREAKIFICATION with a Voice Lesson 
audition at 2:30 with the four voice teachers all staring at me and 
taking notes while I sang. That one actually went quite well. My 
choral audition at 3:20 was not as good as I totally blanked on even 
the easy sight reading. The hard one was basically impossible for 
me. So much for that summer practice. Well, regardless of the 
results, The important thing is that this summer I feel like I've 
progressed to be the best singer I ever have been (because I actually 
diligently practiced at home), and that's what singing is really about, 
self-improvement and mastery of your own, unique instrument. 
Anyway, enough of the fuzzy heartwarming talk. Because of the 
audition, I arrived late to the “President's Reception” because it was 
basically a small amount of snacks + excessive heat + mobs of 
people. President Hennesy was nowhere to be found, although I did 
talk to his wife. I wanted to ask her what she liked the most about 
being the President's wife, but She was pretty busy advertising a 
party, which actually did seem cool. The reception had also 
advertised a “photo with the president”, which was actually a shot of 
a mass of sweaty student-penguins on the presidential lawn. Close 
enough. I'm pretty sure the body heat from everyone packed so 
close was enough to initiate spontaneous combustion, so I'm glad 
we all were released a bit early. Now, after dinner, initial class 
registration, and two failed battles with wifi to connect my printer to 
my computer and my phone to the student network, I'm sitting here 
typing this. And know you know what I write when I'm actually 
cogent instead of semiconscious. 
Update: the Art thin was decently fun: shaving cream + food 
coloring + card stock = decently cool swirly paintings for dorm art. 
The party… As for the party I discovered that I still don't like parties 
just as much as I did before my mission. There were several hitches: I 
couldn't go with one group since I didn't have a bike light (one had 
been stolen and the other didn't have batteries). I then borrowed a 
bike light but one girl who'd said she'd come with me bailed 
because her roommate didn't want to. I ended up going alone in the 
hope of seeing some people I knew/ meeting people there. I didn't 
see anyone I knew, and I chatted with a few people before leaving. 
Overall a very bleh event for me. Here's my perspective on such 
things: if I meet people by going to events I don't like, then those 
people will probably enjoy those events and want to go to more, 
which is problematic. Thus, it would be wise to organize and find 
events that I enjoy if I want to meet new people there. That's the 
skinny. 
In scripture study today I learned about how the Lord chastens us 
because he loves us. I in the vein of what the chemist turned history 
professor said in her seminar two days ago, no experience is ever 
wasted if you use it to inform your future learning. Thus, a bad 
audition isn't a bad thing if it propels me toward another student 
group that engages me. Suffering the consequences of sin can help 
us change for the better if we let ourselves learn the lessons life 
teaches us. 
Impression while praying: “You are not alone.” 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2015 AT 11:19 PM 


A good day today. It was less busy than most days of NSO, as it 
should be since it's a Saturday. I went for a run this morning around 
lake Lagunita and found it quite short, only about 13 minutes round 
trip. Luckily, I got in more running later today because we played 
ultimate frisbee at the football game and got creamed, so it was a 
run fest. After my morning routine, I went out with some other 
people in the dorm to have brunch and do “Stop Hunger Now”, 
which is a food bagging event very much like “Feed My Starving 
Children.” It was very enjoyable and made me feel good, as service 
always does. We had a mini discussion about the experience 
afterwards. I am of several minds about the event. First, it would 
obviously be faster, cheaper, and more efficient to automate the 
process. There are several reasons why they don't. The cynical 
answer is that they'd bag too much food and run out of money. A 
somewhat more nuanced reason is that this is partly an awareness 
effort, and if it mobilizes participants to fight hunger, involve others, 
or at least donate, then it's more effective than automation. The 
biggest issue is that global hunger is primarily a distribution 
problem, not a production problem. We have the food, but we don't 
have the right incentives to feed everyone. Finally, feeding people 
won't stop hunger, those we're feeding need to develop some form 
of domestic production or at least trade, or the problem will persist. 
(It can be argued that feeding them frees aid and their own energy 
to focus on development.) In any case, after that I attended the 
service fair and did some business items. At 3:00, I talked to Mom 
and Dad, which was nice. (Way nicer than one call every six months!). 
I then went off to help Kent move in. His first words were “You 
exist!” I guess it's surreal to finally be in the same place after four 
long years. After helping Kent, I went to watch the football game (an 
away game) on the field of the stadium where said pick up game of 
ultimate frisbee occurred, so I can now say that I have played in the 
Stanford stadium! Afterwards I returned to my dorm room to do a 
reading for PWR (already!). I can't decide if the theme was blatantly 
obvious and repetitive or so subtle that I missed it. 
In scripture study, I learned that due to the lack of consistent physical 
evidence either for or against divinity, reason can be abused in 
proving it doesn't exist (or proving a false concept of deity). Thus, 
faith and reason should be combined. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 73° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2015 AT 10:10 AM 

Well, I'm finally here at Stanford! Orientation has gone well, and I 
was able to meet new people, understand scheduling, explore 
extracurricular options and in general, prepare for the start of classes 
this week. I think I was able to accomplish my desires expressed in 
prayer to be helpful to others by trying to befriend them and show 
them support. I imagine that it's difficult for Joseph to be in a new 
place and simultaneously starting college, so I should make sure to 
be there for him, explain things, and provide a listening ear. Of 
course, not everything went well this week (accidentally taking lunch 
at a grad student event and a less than stellar choral audition come 
to mind). However, Those were learning experiences and I stretched 
myself by trying new things. Real failure would be if I didn't try at all. 
I've met a number of people with whom I get along who could be 
good friends, but the instability of all our schedules makes it difficult 
to connect. Once things settle down into routine classes, I think it 
should be easier. For now, I should get their contact info and hang 
out when possible. I also look forward to meeting the other 
incoming LDS freshmen today, so I may be able to link with them 
during the week. 
I should set some goals for the coming week. My main goal is to 
work as hard as possible in my classes, especially over the next three 
weeks or so, per my dad's advice. This will not only help me to 
establish good study habits but will also help give my teachers a 
good opinion of me, which is always beneficial. My computer game 
hiatus will continue over this week and possibly into the future. I am 
going to ask Kent about what scheduling tools he uses so I can keep 
on top of everything that's going on. I will also try out the reviewing 
notes the day after technique discussed in the study lecture. 
Spiritually, one thing that is on my mind is Sabbath Day observance. 
It seems like keeping the Sabbath sacred and apart is threatened by 
the proliferation of work and activities available to do. I do not know 
if I will always be able to refrain from doing homework on Sundays, 
but I should make it a priority to finish on Friday and Saturday, even 
if it means less recreation. Today I'm going to read the article on 
sabbath day observance on LDS.org to get a better perspective on 
it. I have been doing very well with my scripture study, although I 
would like to make my prayers more meaningful. I will definitely offer 
a prayer before going off to classes and before tests! I prefer 
morning scripture reading to set my day, so I will set my alarm to 
wake up early enough to do it before classes. I am unfortunately 
surrounded by foul language, not all of it under my control. I trust 
that when I can't do anything, Heavenly Father will protect me from 
its effects. However, I have the responsibility to intervene or to leave 
when possible when others' language makes me uncomfortable. 
From the classroom to the dorm room, I want to “always remember 
Christ” and to keep the Lord's commandments. This will make me 
different, but that's alright. 

169–299 SEARSVILLE RD, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 77° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2015 AT 10:19 PM 

A good Sabbath today. In the morning I organized my desk, finalized 
the installation of my printer, and did my reflection on the week. 
Kent picked me up for church in the afternoon, which was a super 
spiritual session. There was a change in the Bishopric, and the old 
bishop spoke about Heavenly Father's love for us and recounted to 
story of the prodigal son, which brought tears to my eyes. He 
pointed out what the father was not: embarrassed, critical, or 
judgemental. He was simply loving. The new bishop is he one and 

only James Welch, padre's old roommate!!!!!!................
.. What are the odds? Kent and I talked to him at the linger longer 
after church, where I also met some of the other freshmen. But I'm 
getting ahead of myself. Priesthood was also great. The Elder's 
Quorum President said that we would talk about pornography. I 
subconsciously expected a litany of general authority quotes and 
admonitions. Instead, he talked about his own struggle with 
pornography and participation in the recovery program, and several 
people got up and did the same. It was very unconventional and 
powerful. I have great respect for them for doing so. Although I was 
only twelve to thirteen when I struggled with pornography, I have 
been very private about it and I don't think I have told anyone other 
than my Mom and Dad and my Bishops, not even Kent. I do see my 
decision to stop and talk to my parents and then the bishop as a 
turning point in my life, though. Almost everything good in my life, 
and especially in the church, can be traced back to that decision. 
Well, that was heavy stuff. Anyway after snacking at the linger longer, 
I returned to my dorm and wrote in the family journal. Then I went 
out to dinner at FloMo with Brickelle and Eliza, two other LDS 
students. We talked for about an hour, and then I biked around to 
make sure I knew where everything was for the start of classes 
tomorrow!!! 
In scripture study I continued to ponder the theme of love from 
Bishop Black's remarks. How can I gain godly love for my peers? 
How can I see them through “God goggles”? I think it will take 
fervent prayer and effort. Trying to see things from their perspective 
and imagine their experiences is a start. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 AT 11:39 PM 

First day of classes! It was busy, but enjoyable. After doing my 
laundry, I went off to my PWR on the rhetoric of containment with 
Shannon Hervey, which only had 15 people in my section, so it's nice 
to be in a smaller class. The Cold War is interesting too. We started 
with a free write on rhetoric, I think of it as a way of framing ideas to 
present them to an audience. We also watched some of the kitchen 
debate between Khrushchev and Nixon each extolling the glories of 
their country's appliances as a proxy for their ideologies. After PWR, 
I went to institute, which had lunch, and got to know more LDS 
students. Along with the new curriculum, the church is implementing 
graduation requirements this year, so you have to do readings, 
attend 75% of classes for credit in a course, and there's even a test!!! 
I suppose it's a good thing. I then headed off with Elijah to CS 106A, 
where another LDS students at right behind us, although I can't 
remember her name (not Frosh) Note From Later: It was Angela 
Cattani. Mehran was super chill and funny and helped alleviate a lot 
of my stress about the class (no grading curve, yay!). Afterwards, I 
headed down to the depths of the School of Education basement for 
a Exploring Islam. It sounds interesting, but I'm not sure if I'll take it 
over Econ. There's a fair amount of reading and 3 classes in one day 
is a bit unbalanced. After unsuccessfully attempting to get a working 
key for my PO box (the locks need to be changed), and picking up 
“Karol the Robot Learns Programming” at the bookstore, I headed 
back to FroSoCo for a lovely dinner (tortellini is my favorite, and who 
knew how good spinach and mushroom Wellingtons could be?) I did 
some study and them went to O Show, the acapella group 
performances. All were very good (including Kent in Volta), but none 
of them spake to me and said “Gordon, we need you” or rather 
“Acapella group, Gordon needs you!” So I doubt I'll audition. I'm 
checking out the Side by Side info tomorrow. By the way, I got a 
voice teacher, yay! All is going along, the only issue is that there 
aren't enough hours in the day. 
In scripture study, I learned that it's key to face and uproot our sins 
and problems early, because like the Gadianton robbers, the longer 
they fester, the more entrenched they become. I could pray to be 
more aware of my sins and weaknesses, but that's a scary 
proposition. I'd also need the strength to respond well to that 
awareness. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 70° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2015 AT 11:42 PM 

A good day today. I had my Intro Sem on Big Data in the morning, 
which was quite engaging. It seems to be a good merger of my 
social science and computer science interests. I attended institute 
again to see how the Tuesday/Thursday track would work with my 
schedule. Then I had Econ 1, which I settled on over Exploring Islam 
because it fits better in my schedule, is a gateway course, and has p-
sets that balance out the reading focus of other classes. 
Unfortunately, this also produced textbook freakification as I had to 
decide where to get all of my Econ books and an evil I<clicker 2. 

Thankfully there's BOTM. .. After making some Amazon orders, I 
went to work reading for PWR, organizing tasks in Any.Do, reading 
for my IntroSem, registering for Econ stuff, and doing an Econ 
reading, which is pretty much review. This was only interrupted by 
dinner, which I had at the dining hall with a girl on my floor named 
Sheetal. She likes me. I mean, really likes me. I don't know exactly 
how to respond, since I am fine with being her friend, but I'm frankly 
not interested in being her boyfriend. I don't want to lead her on, 
but I hardly want to be rude either. It'll take some thinking about. 
Anyway, at dinner she asked me some questions about church, why I 
go, and what constitutes a spiritual experience for me. I went into 
total missionary mode, “Teaching those without a Christian 
background”. I compared life to a school, prayer to calling your 
parents, and the scriptures to a textbook. I hope something got 
through. She is a Stanford student, so she's probably overqualified 
for my typical explanation to a Mexican immigrant with an 
elementary school education. After I answered her questions, I asked 
her why she wanted to know. She said “Because it's important to 
you.” I then asked “Why is what's important to me important to 
you?” She answered “Because you are important to me.” Say what?! 
So yes, that's where we stand with that. Anyway, I've added a fifth 
course to my schedule: relationships. I don't know how many units it 
is, but my guess is five. 
In scripture study, learned about the importance of using true 
coordinates to orient out lives. On my mission, and I anticipate at 
Stanford, I have and will witness those who orient their lives poorly 
and suffer the consequences. I have to say I am quite grateful for the 
gospel to orient me in an otherwise shifting sea. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015 AT 10:48 PM 

A good day today. As always, there was lots to do. I had my second 
PWR class and felt really spot-on in the analysis of the articles I'd 
been able to do so far. Shannon pointed out several things I'd 
noticed, even bringing up the song “Little Boxes”, which had been 
going through my head the last few days! (Just don't get cocky.) 
There was no institute today, so I ate lunch with a random grad 
student in Stern, which was amusing, but I think that once my 
schedule's ironed out, I'll better be able to coordinate with people I 
know. 106A saw the introduction of Karel the programmable robot. 
I'm so close to actually being able to code something now, just a 
little more reading! Afterward I had my first voice lesson with Greg 
Waite, who identified tensions, prescribed music, and got to know 
me, but not in that order. Voice lessons are more stressful for me 
than a lot of other things for reasons I don't understand. It went well, 
though, and after that I went back to the dorm and worked. In other 
news, I got some nice folders color-coordinated to my notebooks for 
my classes to feed my anal-retentive side. My water bottle also 
opened in my backpack, spilling water to the sound of “glug glug 
glug” when I put it down. Luckily, I was able to locate paper towels 
and mitigate the damage to both my books and the store. (I just 
hope their carpet doesn't stain.) Tonight we had a House meeting 
and talked about norms and rules. 
All quiet on the Sheetal front. 
In scripture study I read the Old Testament, Genesis. Besides the 
thought that “waters” could have multiple meanings, from space 
time to actual water, I was impressed with the Lord's procedure of 
“plan, execute, review” in the creation. I want to adopt that in my 
life. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° PARTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 AT 12:15 AM 

Every day it's so packed that it feels like it's two or three days. Today 
was especially so. Here are some of the highlights with approximate 
time stamps. 


7:00 am: Arise and check email. Eek the the freak! I got into 
University Singers AND have been called back for chorale, 
neither of which I expected. Callbacks are tonight!!! 
8:45 am: Attempt to make waffle for breakfast. Fail to spray 
waffle maker, so the waffle divides in two and sticks to the 
machine. Spend several minutes trying to scrape it out with a 
melting plastic knife before a dining hall staffer graciously does it 
in five seconds with a metal knife and sets it up for me right. 
Then I pour honey on the waffle instead of syrup… 
10:30 am: Crash course on machine learning and databases in 
my IntroSem. 
12:00 pm: institute and pontification on the meaning of “all 
things must needs be a compound in one” (2 Nephi 2:11). 
1:10 pm: Grab a Naked and a Cliff Bar for lunch at the Axe and 
Palm. 
1:30 pm: Review supply and demand in Econ. 
3:20 pm: Discover that someone had locked their bike to the 
post through mine, making it impossible to extricate. Decide to 
wait a while to see if they'll come back. 
4:45 pm: Call the bike shop, which sends someone over to cut 
their lock for free. 
5:15 pm: Dinner and “Death By Chocolate” at Ricker with Kent 
7:30 - 9:00 pm: Chorale callbacks. We sing in a group to check 
for balance. 
11:30 pm: I create my first working Java (Karol) program! 
12:00 am: I read the email revealing that I got into Chamber 
Chorale!!! And there was much rejoicing. 
In scripture study I read the Genesis 2 account of the creation. My 
big question is, “Why the Fall?” Why didn't God just plop Adam and 
Eve into the lone and dreary world to grow and use their agency as I 
assume had been the idea in the council in heaven. One reason is to 
show that we're here by choice. Not just Adam and Eve's prescient 
choice that it's better to go through sorrow, but by each of our 
premortal choices. It's a lot like Stanford. There are a lot of 
connections between the Plan of Salvation and going to college. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015 AT 12:03 AM 

A good day today. Quite busy for a Friday. Why is everyone cheering 
outside? Don't they know it's time to sleep? My time stamps will be 
all messed up because I keep writing these things past midnight. I 
remember when it used to be novel to stay up past midnight, a New 
Year's Eve occasion. Now it's hard not to. It's not like I'm chilling 
either. Today I whaled on Karel the robot, probably prematurely but 
cathartically. This morning there was an Econ experiment in which 
we had a double auction. We acted as buyers and sellers, each with 
a price sheet describing what our cost of production or utility gained 
from each product was. The skinny is that our resume matched the 
predicted equilibrium price and quantity, and even the consumer 
and producer surplus very well. It's conceptually impressive but it 
boils down to “College students can read tables”, because I'm 
pretty sure a robot could've done what we did. Later, I went to 
Shannon's office hours, grabbed a burger at the Axe and Palm, 
perused the activities fair, and went to CS106A and learned about 
decomposing code and decomposing Mozart, which is what he's 
doing right now. I then picked up some packages at UPS and as a 
result of the day's acquisition of items, my backpack was morbidly 
obese (I unpacked one box right there so I could fit the contents 
inside. Anyway, after creating permanent strap-shaped indentations 
on my shoulders, I got back to FroSoCo and organized myself. This 
evening saw a Dean's Welcome BBQ (Dean being Dean Hussein of 
FroSoCo) in which we chatted and I learned that cloud computing is 
the future of data storage and that programmable hardware (think 
logic gates) is the future of computing. I retired with my room and 
after a chat with Sheetal in which she talked about being 
homesick/disillusioned/overwhelmed at Stanford (not seriously, but 
mildly), and I talked about exploring options, my mission, and gave 
her a Mormon.org card. She slipped in the question “Are you 
single?” and I slipped in the answer “I'm looking for friends, not 
girlfriends.” I'm fine with being her friend and chatting with her, I just 
don't want a romantic relationship in the way that she likely 
anticipates (read: high maintenance). If she wants to do some stuff 
together, fine, call it a date, but I'm not going steady. So, I'll have to 
communicate that point in a more tactful way later. But for now, I'm 
going to bed! 
In scripture study I read about how the Nephites were not destroyed 
by robbers but by pride. It's interesting how we tend to pull 
ourselves together and turn to God in a crisis, but when the trouble 
has passed, we relax and forget about God, falling into the real trap. 
It reminds me of the fable about the Sun and the Wind trying to get 
a man to take off his coat. The wind howled and blew and tried to 
tear the cost away, but the man just held it tighter. The sun shone 
warmly and innocently, making the man uncomfortable and to coat 
uncomfortable. The man then took of the coat himself. Likewise in 
the sunny times of comfortable living, we may feel awkward and 
uncomfortable living the gospel, tempting is to shrug it off. Don't do 
it! 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2015 AT 1:01 AM 

It's late. I'm punchy. I'll be busytomorrow and I need to sleep, so I'llkeep it condensed. 

LDSSA rolled me out for breakfast at a member of the bishopric's 
house. At least it was only 7:00 am. I studied PWR readings and 
wrote a blog post on DEFCON the game. I studied Econ. I Skyped 
with Kent, Mom, and Dad. Sheetal and I took a walk and talked 
about her douse scheduling fears. I watched part of the Chinese 
military parade from a few weeks ago to consider it for rhetorical 
analysis. There aren't enough hours in the day. 
In scripture study I learned that conversion is cyclical not spectral. 
That means you don't “achieve” it and you don't stop. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2015 AT 12:21 PM 

It's been an extremely busy week, but white fulfilling as well. I've 
kept my commitment to work really hard in my classes these first few 
weeks to establish good patterns and expectations. I have to work a 
lot, but I think If I keep it up, I won't fall behind and may even be 
able to gain a slight edge in some classes. Habla is a good service 
opportunity so I will try to pursue that. I have been able to continue 
scripture study and prayer despite all the demands on my time, so I 
should keep on showing Heavenly Father that those things are a 
priority. I've actually had quite a few missionary opportunities this 
week, talking about my mission and explaining prayer to Sheetal, 
which is good. I know that peoples' eyes are on me a bit because I'm 
the only Mormon in FroSoCo, so I have the responsibility of showing 
by example what we believe. That goes back to the sacrament 
prayer of always remembering Christ, even when I'm in class or 
talking to friends. I'm grateful that I'm not alone because of the 
support of the LDSSA, and I should find ways to give back service to 
them. Now that my schedule is falling into place, I should develop a 
regular game plan for institute attendance, such as registering for 
the Old Testament class. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 70° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2015 AT 11:29 PM 

Good Sabbath. In the morning I did my Econ reading and had a 
good conversation with Lizzie Frankel over breakfast about my 
mission and other things. She's from Minnesota and Jewish (pretty 
high standards), and had a good Mormon friend there, so we've 
connected well over the past two weeks. She asked about my 
research assistant job and then looked up the developmental 
idealism site online! Impressive. I then went to church (Kent did not 

.. 
) with Catherine Holding, the LDSSA president. We had freshman 
Sunday school, which was fun. After church we all had Indian food 
for dinner at FloMo (and I had scooped ice cream). I then went to an 
Econ 1 study group I had organized which seemed to help others in 
the group more than it helped me. I don't know if my background in 
Econ makes me overanalyze the problems. After that I read the first 
two chapters of “The Art and Science of Java”, dashed off some 
emails to people, and wrote my family journal entry. 
While writing I listened to President Uchtdorf's talk from relief society 
yesterday which consists entirely of a story about a girl who stays 
with her great aunt over the summer and discovers how happy her 
aunt is despite experiencing serious disappointments like never 
fulfilling her dream of getting married. One of the lines that spoke to 
me because it addressed one of my questions is when the girl asked, 
in regard to faith and hope, “So we just have to wait until eternity to 
be happy? All our happiness awaits in the distant future?” The aunt 
replies, “My dear child, eternity starts now!” I think it's important to 
remember that now is part of eternity not only from the perspective 
of our decisions, which we tend to emphasize in the church, but also 
from the perspective of our happiness. As Moroni writes, in the 
resurrection, “he that is happy shall be happy still; and he that is 
unhappy shall be unhappy still” (Mormon 9:14). So let's be happy! 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2015 AT 11:27 PM 

A good day today. Nice and busy. Had PWR in the morning, where, 
after we presented our essay choices, we were reminded that we 
have to bring in a draft on Wednesday. (Technically you don't have 
to turn it in to the teacher until Friday, but I have an early 
conference, so I have to submit mine on Thursday. Speaking of 
submitting things, I submitted y Exon P-set after downloaded the 
trial version of Adobe Acrobat Pro so I could scan my documents to 
PDF. Oops, I'm off on a parenthetical tangent again. Back to reality, 
Gordon.) After lunch at Olives, a little Mediterranean cafe, I resolved 
an enrollment issue for voice lessons and went to the first Chorale 
rehearsal. It went pretty well. I followed along in the sight reading 
with only some difficulty. I don't know how I'll learn the pieces on my 
own. I'll have to talk to some other members (none of whom actually 
spoke to me when we were in the room, now that I think about it. It's 
interesting to contrast the ethos of a group like that with LDSSA 
which is full of people who'll introduce themselves at the drop of a 
hat, not that many people have hats to drop anyway. Back from 
parenthetical land!) CS 106A went well. I think I am slowly gaining 
ground in the homework battle, but it's a war of attrition. I'm getting 
to the point where I can develop a two day plus buffer between the 
time I do assignments and the time that they're due, which is good. 
Anyway, that's about it for the day. My most meaningful interaction 
was with my friend the Rhetorical Analysis Essay. 
In scripture study I learned about the destruction in the Americas 
surrounding the death of Christ. It was interesting that all this 
occurred just a little later than the time predicted by Samuel, after 
most people had discounted it. That meant that only those who 
really believed in Samuel because of faith, not logic or social 
conversion, were the ones who held out true to the end. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015 AT 11:45 PM 

A good day today. Nice and productive with nothing too special. I 
had my IntroSem in the morning and learned about data 
visualization. We received a small assignment to do a visualization of 
whatever data we want. I'm considering metrics related to gun 
control, compiled global warming data (such as heat going into 
oceans) or some other social sciencey display. In institute we 
discussed the fall of Adam and Eve in great detail, the meaning of 
transgression and why it was necessary. Joseph Fielding Smith's 
interpretation was basically that God forbade Adam and Eve to 
partake of the fruit if they wanted to stay in the garden, but didn't 
forbid them from taking the choice (and suffering the consequences) 
of eating the fruit and leaving the garden. The biggest takeaway was 
really what mom had always told me, “We are all Adam and Eve.” 
Like them we chose to come to this earth and now experience the 
consequences of mortality and separation from God. Like them, we 
can return to God's presence by pursuing a covenant path. 
After institute I went off to Econ, then, forestalled from trying to fix 
my also box key by the massive line at the bookstore, I returned to 
my dorm and did some Econ problems, edited my PWR essay 
slightly, did Econ readings, and finalized my programs for 
Assignment 1 of CS 106A. I did a bit of optimization that made them 
less clunky and they all work on all the appropriate worlds I've tested 
them on now. There is one issue in one program where Karel stops 
at the end of the task but I think her run process is still looping 
through statements, they just never result in her moving. I'll be 
checking that in the office hours this week. 
Scott, one of my dorm mates across the hall, had a very stressed 
conversation with his parents about some sort of package he's trying 
to get ending in both a burst of anger and tears. I think it's more that 
he's stressed about college and living alone and interacting with this 
world of crazy people than the package. I briefly offered my help, 
but Scott was still too upset to talk much. I'll mention to one of the 
CAs that he may need a booster. Don't we all sometimes? 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 AT 11:35 PM 

A good day today. Let's see, I revised my essay in PWR. I redid the 
intro for more impact, broke it up into two paragraphs and 
strengthened the thesis. It's interesting how much consideration we 
take over whether a line is indented half an inch or not. Of course, 
we also take due consideration of painted lines and colored lights in 
the streets, so I really shouldn't be surprised. Institute was about 
prophetic succession in the reorganized LDS church. Not really, but 
we did meander down that path a bit. Mehran was amusing in 106A, 
which is always fun :D (Sometimes you've just got to use old school 
emojis. Remember this? <>< }< fish eats fish.) after that I met with 
some group members for greater revision of our PWR essays. I 
grabbed dinner at Panda Express. (They were out of sweet and sour 

sauce for my rice .. That deserves a real crying emoji.) I then went 
to office hours for 106A to check on a bug where I thought one of 
my programs was looping through even though Karel had stopped. 
(It was, but it was a one method fix. The guy also complimented me 
on my good code. Yay!) The wait was horrendous though, so I 
finished my Econ reading there. We also had a “hall meeting” in our 
dorm, which was a meeting of everyone in the hall for general info. I 
now get to stick a speech bubble outside my door that says “Ask me 
about…” I'm considering putting “Johan Tetzel.” Have I told you 
about how he caused modern world history? Perhaps another time. I 
also talked to Grant, one of our CAs, about Scott. I'm relieved to 
know that someone else will have an eye on him and maybe offer 
support. Actually, the whole situation has put my mission in 
perspective. It's made the transition to college relatively seamless, 
and I don't just mean that I already knew how to do laundry. Work 
ethic, scheduling, dealing with stress, separation from family, I've 
done it before and have a bit of experience. It's really true that the 
blessings of a mission are lifelong and beyond. So, that's my spiritual 
thought for the day, although it's not really connected to my 
scripture reading in 3 Nephi 10. I guess a mission is a call for God to 
“gather us as a hen gatherereth her chicks under her wings.” Now 
I'm enjoying a bit of the sheltering wings of God. It's a nice place to 
be. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° CLOUDY 

October 2015 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015 AT 12:17 AM 

Tis late, tis late, tis late to write a journal entry mate. Hmm, that 
wasn't the best rhyme, but it is midnight. It's midnight because I 
went to the “Party on the Edge” with Sheetal after Chorale practice 
(endless sight reading, eek!). The party was held in Cantor and 
consisted of a number of performances and insufficient food. There 
was also art. I'm not sure that contemplating studies for “The Gates 
of Hell” actually constitutes a party, but we did it. Moving back, I ate 
dinner at Stern. The last two times I've eaten dinner at Stern, I've sat 
by a sketchy grad student… I had CS 106A sections, Econ 1, a voice 
lesson (more sight reading, EEK!!), and my Big Data IntroSem. We 
actually had a guest speaker who'd founded a class 
ranking/recommendation site called course rank and built Stanford 
Explore courses “In a weekend” while here as a student. Oh yes, and 
I forgot my laptop at my dorm in the morning, but it wasn't really an 
issue. So that's my day in reverse. 
In scripture study I read more in Genesis (Cain and Abel's story is 
way clearer and less arbitrary in Moses) and when Christ visits 
America. I think it's interesting that a heist invites the people to 
come and feel the prints of the nails in his hands “that they may 
know” that He is the Savior. I think often we talk of faith as a kind of 
naive trust that we don't question God's teachings. I think faith is 
really having the courage to move forward despite our questions 
and by so moving come to touch the wounds in the hands of Christ, 
and so know, or at least strengthen our belief, that He is real. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2015 AT 12:41 AM 


That's Al Gore, and I took that picture. Yes, I know it's a bit 
pixelated, but it's a good action shot. So, there was this Climate rally 
at White Plaza from 4:00 to 6:00, and Al Gore was one of the 
speakers. Given that global warming is something that I actually 
really care about, having researched the evidence and read 
“Merchants of Doubt” of my own volition in high school, it was 
definitely an attractive event to go to. The free food didn't hurt 
either. Kent came along as well. There was an interminable stream of 
not-Al-Gore speakers before he spoke, so I followed the algorithm 
while(speakerNotAlGore) { 
doEconPset(); 
} 
That seemed to be a pretty good program, and I did finish all my 
Econ problems today. I also did all my PWR homework, so basically I 
have readings for 106A and Econ, and I should probably choose a 
data set for my IntroSem. I also worked on assignment 2 for 106A, 
even though it's not due for a while (I find that the CS assignments 
kind of draw me to them because they're interesting to do.) Anyway, 
enough about homework. 
I had an Econ section in the morning, after which I joined Kent in 
giving Chandra (son of Mom's friend, senior in high school in 
Michigan) and his dad a tour of campus. We got free lunch out of it 

too .. He seems like the kind of person who'd do well at Stanford 

(based on my vast two weeks of experience of what defines that). 
Well, tomorrow's General Conference, so I better get to bed! 
In scripture study I read about Christ teaching the beatitudes in the 
Americas. One big takeaway for me is that I can't be contentious 
(externally or internally by holding a grudge) and be close to God. 
Why can't we be friends? 

418 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2015 AT 1:19 AM 

I don't know why all these entry's are ridiculously late. I guess it's 
because I'm busy. Today was general conference. It was very good. 
President Uchtdorf's talk on making the gospel “work” for us was my 
favorite because is was more exploratory than describing the same 
old prescriptive methods. Connor and I went to the wrong church 
building and listened to priesthood session alone #epic dayone1://tag 
s?name=epic fail. Taco night. I wrote a pyramid program in Java that 
magically worked even though I still really don't know what I'm 
doing. 
Scripture for the day is Alma 5:26. Several general authorities 
quoted it and it's on my mission plaque. “If ye have experienced a 
change of heart… If ye have felt to sing the song of redeeming love, 
I would ask, 'Can ye feel so now?'” I put that on my plaque for 
others to read, not fully realizing that it was also a message to my 
future self, my post-mission self, which is now my current self, asking 
if I have retained the change of heart I once had. So far, I believe 
that I have. Of course, not perfectly, but I'm striving toward renewal. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2015 AT 11:41 AM 

Once again, it's been a vet busy week, although I don't think I've 
been overwhelmed. It's like I'm trying to ride the crest of a wave, 
and as long as I stay on top of my work, I'll be alright. With the 
settling of my schedule, I think I've worked out good arrangements 
for institute attendance and consistent scripture study, so I should 
make sure that I'm making the most of my time with those things. 
Heavenly Father is definitely helping me out with school, such as 
giving me assistance with my essay so that I wrote a good draft in a 
very limited time. I also was blessed in completing the Pyramid 
program for CS, which worked basically miraculously. I should show 
gratitude for these blessings by setting aside time to thank God in 
prayer and in action. 

893 FIELDING DR, PALO ALTO, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2015 AT 10:47 PM 

Yay, it's not midnight! That's because I purposely decided to go to 
bed early. I wish I could've done more homework today. I made 
some progress revising my essay, reviewed my Econ Pset (which 
consisted mostly of me explaining my answers to other people in the 
study group), and made measly progress on selecting a dataset for 
my IntroSem assignment. Maybe “national satisfaction” and top 
Google searches? I went to an info session on Habla for tutoring and 
talked with Mom, Dad, and Kent. The apex of the day (which took 
up most of it) was general conference, which the LDSSA watched at 
the house of a member of the Bishopric. It was a good conference, 
although President Monson seemed painfully tired. Russell M. 
Nelson delivered a stirring feminist manifesto on the importance of 
women leading in roles other than motherhood. My favorite 
remained President Uchtdorf's talk of yesterday on simplifying. With 
so much to do at Stanford, this is a pertinent message. I think I 
should be more conscious and conscientious when I do things like 
pray and study the scriptures. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2015 AT 11:08 PM 

Still not midnight! I'm on a two day streak now! I even was ambitious 
and finished my CS 106A assignment and it's still not too late, which 
is good. We discussed the Students for a Democratic Society and J. 
Edgar Hoover's open letter to them, but I was feeling a bit out of it 
in PWR. We also discussed the next essay, texts in conversation. I'm 
considering studying the “China dream” because it's an ill-defined 
concept that there's a lot of literature about, from the New York 
Times article that apparently sparked the idea to a militaristic 
Chinese book on it to pop music. After class, I went down to the 
Russo cafe to have lunch with my host family, a married LDS couple 
that the LDSSA pairs each student with. Mine are Lisa and Howie 
Pearson, who apparently knew Moodles and Poodles in their time 
here. The incestuous web thickens. After that we had chorale 
rehearsal and read one good piece and one scary piece. Now that 
I'm a bit ahead of the curve on my homework, I can focus on music 
practice more. 106A was good, and as I mentioned, I trucked along 
on the assignment, although there are a few parts where I feel like I 
could improve here or there. My “hailstone” program that simulates 
a mathematical process that resolves every number to 1 worked on 
the first try though! After class, I watched “The Fog of War”, a 
documentary that could be more aptly titled “Robert McNamara 
Reflects”. Despite the obvious self-serving bias that everyone has 
when accounting their own careers, McNamara does rail against the 
brutality of war and the past and still-present threat of nuclear 
annihilation. In the evening, I went to FHE and gave the spiritual 
thought on Alma 5. We then played a game called “psychologist” in 
which the entire group pretends to have a disorder (like aging 
backwards or being a Christmas tree) and one person who's the 
psychologist has to ask the group questions to discover the disorder. 
In a mad world… 
In scripture study I mostly prepared my spiritual thought. However, I 
did receive some clarification on what qualifies as a treasure. A 
treasure is what I put my effort and focus into, as well as where my 
priorities lie. It it's school, that's my treasure. If it's video games, 
that's my treasure. If the gospel, then that treasure can't be 
threatened by corrupted hard drives or a failing memory. I really do 
feel involved with LDS social life on campus, and I'm certainly 
keeping the commandments. It's a matter of making sure I “feel so 
now” the power of the Holy Ghost, as Alma says. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015 AT 10:08 PM 

A good day today. A little more relaxed since I for a bit ahead of the 
homework wave. Somehow, though, I still plenty to do. We did a 
quick tour of data analysis tools in My IntroSem, a quick mainly 
being “they exist.” I then went to Institute where we had totally free 
discussion on the accuracy of the Old Testament account of 
Abraham, why he lied to pharaoh, polygamy, circumcision, and to 
what extent commandments are “eternal truth” vs. cultural truth. I 
contributed to that last one somewhat. I think commandments are 
applications of eternal principles to our specific cultural 
circumstances. For example, the law of Moses had specific dietary 
laws which served in part to help keep the Israelites healthy before 
the era of modern medicine. We no longer observe those, but we do 
have the Word of Wisdom, which evolved in conjunction with the 
rise of mass-produced drugs, legal and illegal. Joseph Smith says 
something to the same point, “This is the principle on which the 
government of heaven is conducted–by revelation adapted to the 
circumstances in which the children of the kingdom are placed.” I 
think adapted is key there. Anyway, I then went to Econ, where I had 
a tad bit of trouble staying awake, hmm probably too much midnight 
oil burned. After Econ, I went to the Hume center to have someone 
look over my Rhetorical Analysis draft partly because I wanted 
another pair of eyes on it and partly because I'm participating in a 
draft revision study focused on tutoring, so I thought I'd do them the 
favor of coming so they could record my tutoring session. The tutor 
seemed impressed by the essay and gave me some ideas for my 
conclusion, even though she enigmatically only spoke in questions, 
which I'm sure they're trained to do so they help the writer learn. 
After bunkering in my room to do some homework, and falling 
asleep again during the Econ reading, I did a bit of music practice. 
Have I mentioned my existential crisis over whether I should 
continue taking voice lessons? They're obviously beneficial, but if I 
don't have the time to do a good job with them, then why do it? I 
guess the practice time outside lunch isn't too prohibitive, and there 
is a master class that's not mandatory but kind of is. If I had to 
choose between voice lessons and Habla, I think I'd go Habla just for 
balance, although I can't say to sure since I haven't yet experienced 
it. 
In scripture study, I read more of Genesis (have to keep up with the 
class!) There was an interesting comment about being the salt of the 
earth, that it brings savor to life. I feel that's true. A life full of "stuff” 
without the gospel is bleached of color. Interesting, as I started 
writing that sentence, the song “Richard Cory” came on… 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015 AT 9:27 PM 

A good day today. We had PWR in the morning and we discussed 
“The Fog of War” and had some time to revise our essays. I worked 
on my conclusion and I think I got some good importance out of it. 
WE ARE THE EAGLE! SO PO-MO. You'll just have to read it to 
understand. We discussed faith and hope in institute at lunch, then I 
went to 106A and got some ideas to improve my methods in 
assignment 2, which I implemented this afternoon. Before I could do 
that though, I biked over to the Law Library to pick up a sleeping 
bag for this weekend's retreat from Lisa Pearson (of my “host 
family”). I then drew on my deep seated scouting knowledge of 
knots (italics clearly don't denote sarcasm) to slip the pad into my 
backpack and tie the sleeping bag to it to create a very puffy, but 
mercifully light contraption that rode on my back as I biked home 
without incident. This evening, I had dinner with Kent at ZAP, 
although I don't really see how it's better than a dining hall (although 
the homemade bread was good, no sarcasm this time). We then 
reviewed flights for Winter Break, which, since I leave on the Tuesday 
of finals week, will be nearly a month long all told! Kent also finagled 
me into attending the SAY meeting, in which I pontificated on the 
dangers of establishing anchor values by letting one reviewer see 
another's score. Psych for the win! After consultation with Kent, I 
consulted with Mom about my voice lessons during email and a call 
and settled on going to Greg to present the situation (I'm not sure I 
can adequately devote my time to voice lessons with my other 
commitments and I don't want to overextend myself in the first 
quarter.), express my goals (keep music as a part of my life and build 
my skills), and ask for his perspective or some sort of synergistic 
solution (like working on chorale music during the lesson or 
something). Based on that info, I can continue, modify, or drop the 
class. Music is definitely important to me, but given that I already 
have chorale, it may be a better balance to my schedule to do 
something different like Habla (which I have yet to experience but 
am currently waiting for the Wednesday class to start). Hopefully this 
will allow me to come to some sort of reasonable solution or at the 
very least help Greg understand if I choose to drop and let me know 
about the process for re-enrolling in a later quarter. Hmm… 
Sometimes it seems that my life is less stressful when music is not 
involved… So, that's the day. We'll see what tomorrow brings! 
PS Habla was fun. Mission memories yay! 
In scripture study I read President Uchtdorf's talk “The Infinite Power 
of Hope”. In exploring the differences between faith and hope and 
why we delineate these as two separate concepts, some ideas from 
study and institute were: 
Faith is a belief in or knowledge of external truth (ex. God exists, 
Christ is our Savior) 
Hope is a belief in or knowledge of the personal implications of that 
truth (ex. Because there is a loving God, my difficult life experiences 
are learning experiences. Christ is my personal Savior and therefore I 
can be clean from sin and receive relief.) We speedster the two 
because if we exhibit one without the other, it's a sign that we need 
some spiritual attention. For example, if we believe in God yet have 
trouble being optimistic about our life experiences, then we should 
focus on the hope side. If we believe that everything will work out 
well in the end but don't know if God exists, then we should 
strengthen our faith. One final insight that I hadn't before realized: 

Hope is a commandment. So, have hope! 

418 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015 AT 12:05 AM 

Aww broke the no midnight streak. Well, I'm waking up at 8:00 
today, unless my alarm goes off early like it did this morning. I'll be 
brief. Busy, as Thursdays are wont to be. Big Data visualization 
selection. Talked to Greg about voice lessons and he said he 
understands if I'm busy and won't judge me if I can't always practice, 
so I'll keep doing voice lessons for this quarter. Econ was fine 
although I got a few points off on my p-set because I interpreted a 
quote that we were supposed to analyze differently, so although my 
analysis was correct as far as I can tell, it was different from the 
accepted answer. Had 106A sections. Every time I have a CS class, I 
get more ideas for polishing my code, so I did that and then 
submitted early so I didn't forget since Saturday and Sunday are the 
chorale retreat. We had rehearsal tonight in mixed formation and not 
in sections. I did better than I thought I would, but there's lots of 
parts I have to work on. NO TIME. I guess I could always sleep less, 
but I'd like to keep that as only a last resort, since being well-rested 
in itself improves my efficiency and creativity. 
In scripture study I read more of Genesis. I don't know why the 
Tower of Babel story is there other than showing that people get 
smitten when they're prideful and you can't do anything if you're not 
unified. That's why I do Habla. Yay! 
Looking forward to Friday forum tomorrow. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 70° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015 AT 11:05 PM 

A good day today. I had Econ Section in the morning and then went 
to Friday Forum (baja fresh tacos!) where Bishop Welch basically told 
a big story of his life journey, with a focus on Stanford. The idea was 
that the Lord is in the details of our lives, from having an alcoholic 
organ teacher who quit just as Bishop Welch was deciding if he 
should stay at Stanford for graduate school to getting trained on 
how to play in the bell tower just as a job for organist/bell tower 
player (he used a more technical term) opened up at UC Santa 
Barbara. It's an inspiring story considering how many disparate 
options I have at Stanford and how little information I have to 
prioritize them. After the forum an had 106A, and immediately after 
that an interactive grading session for assignment 1, which was not 
so much interactive as my TA telling me: “This was good, this was 
bad.” I got a .., which is a good score though. Hopefully I had 
time to implement any final stylistic changes in. Assignment 2 this 
weekend. I'm actually doing well on homework. I'd be way ahead if 
it weren't for the Chorale retreat. I feel like always as I'm just about 
to get ahead, something comes up that puts me back in the thick of 
things. Anyway, after that I went back and did homework, picked up 
a package from the Roble Package Center which is a hidden location 
occupied by the secretive package gnomes that only communicate 
in monosyllabic commands: “ID?” “Name?” “Here.” Okay, maybe 
I'm exaggerating, but I think somebody should cast a petronus there 
to drive away the deme for spirit. Later in the evening, we had 
“FroSoCafe”, a dinner at the Dean's that included sparkling 
conversation on such topics as “Is any major "useless”?“ and "Why 
do we have marriage?” In the latter, I advocated a clean division 
between the religious/social aspects of “marriage” and the legal 
aspects of “union” instead of unilaterally expanding its definition. 
Finally, I practiced a bit of music, and I felt I was able to improve a 
bit, yay! 
In scripture study I read lots about Abraham. His story shows that 
even one who is isolated and surrounded by those of different faiths 
(sound like college?) can thrive and receive the Lord's favor, blessing 
not only himself but many to come. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2015 AT 11:04 PM 


A good day today. Chorale retreat. After meeting at 8:00 am at 
Tressider, we all carpooled over to the Highlands park, which is 
literally right by the Golden Gate Bridge, as the picture 
demonstrates. Because of a reservation snafu, we ended up doing 
our morning rehearsal and lunch in a different place from where we 
are sleeping, but it was in the same general area. Part of the park is 
built on an old coastal defense base complete with bunkers where 
they used to house artillery batteries and a SAM site that later 
became a Nike ABM site. Anyway, we had a morning rehearsal, ate 
lunch, had another rehearsal, and went down to a lighthouse that 
had an overlook onto the bay and the ocean, which was super cool. 
It's Fleet Week in San Francisco, so we saw the Blue Angels doing 
turn around a for their air show basically right over us! We then went 
down to the beach briefly and had dinner at our overnight dorm. We 
had a rehearsal in which we covered all the Christmas music (eek to 
the freak! It's super hard!) just when I thought I was getting the hang 
of the other pieces… Afterwards we socialized and played a bit of 
Catch Phrase. Most other members of the group drank copious 
amounts of alcohol. (To be fair, some of them were over the legal 
limit. Some…) If they'd seen what I've seen of families destroyed by 
alcohol and totally wasted fathers surrounded by cans of Corona, 
they might think twice about drinking too. 
In scripture study I read about Melchizedek and how the priesthood, 
and I think the gospel in a larger sense, is intended to “break all 
bonds” (JST Genesis 14:31). Bonds like addiction to alcohol, for 
example. How applicable. 

37.6893° N, 122.465° W 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2015 AT 10:17 PM 

A good day today. It started with waking up and breakfast at the 
retreat, then we had a final rehearsal. We did learn a lot, so I hope to 
conserve that with practice, even if it's just 15 minutes a day. There 
are some sections I really still need to learn. We ended early, which 
was the first in a stream of tender mercies helping me get to church. 
I didn't think we'd get back before sacrament meeting started, so I 
hadn't contacted anyone about a ride (I had planned on biking if I 
was late.) I texted a few people but they were busy, so I changed 
into my white shirt and tie and saddled up on my bike. I'd hardly left 
FroSoCo however then who should I pull in front of but Brigg, who 
happened to have a free car and ended up giving me a ride to 
church! It was definitely a little miracle for a little act of faith. We 
discussed the Sabbath in Freshman Sunday school, and after getting 
the elephant in the room that sometimes it's just not feasible not to 
do homework on Sunday out of the way, we talked about various 
strategies to keep the Sabbath different, from remembering why 
we're working (the glory of God is intelligence, not grade grubbing) 
to wearing church clothes all day. I haven't progressed to that level 
yet, although I do try to wear something a little nicer on Sunday. 
After church, I Skyped with Mom, Dad, and Kent, then did an Econ 
study group session. I wrote some people (including Kira and Mrs. I) 
and polished some of my work. Hopefully with a good night's sleep, 
all will be in order for tomorrow! 
In scripture study I looked for my patriarchal blessing but couldn't 
find it… I also read about Abraham being commanded to sacrifice 
his son Isaac. I saw a parallel between Abraham going to the end of 
his faith and the little extra faith it took me to start biking before the 
Lord intervened and helped out in both instances. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 AT 11:25 PM 

Late. I'll be short. Good day. Goodnight. 

Just kidding. After a librarian's got it to PWR in the morning to talk 
about research, I had Chorale practice around noon, which went 
fairly well, although we continue to move at a rapid pace. Today we 
started singing songs with only a starting note from someone with 
perfect pitch (every Chamber Choir's gotta have one). 106A went 
well, and we got our first big assignment: making Breakout. That 
should be fun (famous last words, heh heh heh). In the evening I 
went to a master class with this professional baritone who coached 
some student singers (baritones) through their solo songs. He did a 
very good job but the fuzzy freakification of the whole situation just 
cemented my desire not to be a professional singer. Not my kind of 
gig. I also went to an LDSSA FHE BBQ. (yeah, you want more 
acronyms? Bring it on! Or should I say, BIO? Wait… that doesn't 
work.) Afterwards I went to Habla, which lightened my spirits. Now I 
must bed. 
In scripture study I learned more about Abraham and his servant 
meeting Rebekah. It seems kind of arbitrary that the servant just 
prays for the woman who gives his camels water to be Isaac's wife 
until you realize that he had already exercises significant faith by 
traveling to this city and praying. Additionally, he didn't wait for 
women to come to him but sought them out and talked to them, no 
doubt appraising their virtues. Obviously charity would figure big in 
anyone who broke their back bringing gallons and gallons of water 
to some stranger's camels. The only thing that the servant couldn't 
know is if the woman were related enough to Isaac to make her 
marriageable, which the Lord helped out with. Continuing the theme 
from yesterday, we sometimes take a few steps into the dark before 
we perceive God's light. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 AT 10:48 PM 


A good day today. I did my data visualization presentation in my 
IntroSem, which relied on simplicity for avoiding errors and making it 
easy to understand. It got the job done though. In institute we 
discussed how Rebekah was actually acting on revelation by 
conniving to get Jacob the birthright instead of Esau. I then went to 
Econ and we discussed oligopolies. Somehow I got ahead in both 
my Econ and CS readings, but I'm not complaining, I'll just keep on 
trucking. I also got a haircut, as demonstrated by my picture. At $27, 
it was highway robbery, but less robbery than Kent's hair stylist, who 
charges $40. Give me the $8 haircut, I say! Or at least $15… Well, 
BOTM will pay for it. I then chugged away at work. Dinner was more 
delicious than usual: beef barbacoa, strawberry feta salad, garlic 
bread, and a churro. 
In scripture study I read about the aforementioned Rebekah incident. 
Since I already talked about that, I will discuss my Ponderize 
scripture, Matthew 6:33 (I'm memorizing it in Spanish). With so many 
things to seek at Stanford, I think it's important to remember that 
grades, a social life, or having fun really come secondary to the 
kingdom of God, whatever that means specifically for me in my day, 
like attending institute or taking the time to pray. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015 AT 11:34 PM 

Das et gut day. PWR in the morning, I better start outlining my Texts 
in Conversation essay. I have an idea of my question and some 
discussions I can analyze (i.e. the consumerist, nationalist, 
environmentalist, and constitutionalist perspectives on the Chinese 
dream) but I do need to broaden sources and may need a better 
Cold War connection. If I had one strong academic source on the 
Cold War era American Dream, that could provide a good backdrop 
for the other text's ideas on the Chinese version. Institute was good, 
discussing why we need prophets in a not textbook manner. Some 
people were quite sensitive about President Uchtdorf anecdotally 
insinuating that women are better cooks than men in his talk. That 
wasn't the point of the story he shared and that wasn't his 
conclusion, but we can be ironically prejudiced about not having 
prejudice. Anyway, 106A was good, and I put my paddle in my 
program and got it to move, yay! I need to do some more 
decomposition for the next part though: the ball. I returned the 
sleeping bag to Sister Pearson, got a book from the library and 
studies there (with an involuntary nap break caused by reading about 
operations on chars in Java.) I then went to a panel on the purpose 
of a college education, mostly because there were free Ike's sub 
sandwiches and Mehran Sahami, my CS teacher, was on the panel. 
There were some good insights, such as not committing too early 
and trying a lot of things out, garnering human connections over 
mere course grades that won't matter after grad school, and the 
obvious but important, “People's paths to jobs are highly random.” 
The sub was small, though… Habla was canceled, so I worked the 
night away on Econ. Kent and I also got Disney fast passes! Zip-adee-
do-dah! 
In scripture study I read the aforementioned talk by President 
Uchtdorf “Happiness, Your Heritage” in which he says God's 
happiness comes from creating and compassion, and so should ours. 
It's an interesting counterpoint to the college education discussion, 
which was all “Me me me!” From personal experience, I agree with 
President Uchtdorf that looking beyond yourself is key. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015 AT 1:00 AM 

Daily summary: lots of signing (voicelesson + chorale): good 

Learning Python for BigData: Eeek! The idea that we could just “pick 
it up on our own” is patently ridiculous. Luckily Kent helped me start. 

PWR essay outline progress. 
Econ Pset progress but I need to review for the midterm. 
No time. 
Scripted on forgiveness: Laban and Esau to Jacob, mostly because 
Jacob was righteous. Hopefully some inspiration can get me 
through. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° CLEAR 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2015 AT 12:07 AM 

I can never seem to get to my journal until it's tomorrow. Productive 
day though. I got Breakout in working order. I basically finished my 
Econ Pset, although I do have one question. I read several sources 
for my Chinese Dream TiC and came up with a good organization 
scheme. It's two dimensional. One axis is Economic vs 
Environmentalist (several papers discuss that trade off), and the 
other is Nationalist vs Reform. This way I can easily thematically plot 
my sources, and the beauty is that it works just as well for the 
American Dream. (Ex, SDS were reform, J Edgar Hoover was 
nationalist). Had a Friday forum on Amanda's mission to Ecuador, 
which was super cool. That also meant I ended up eating with 
Connor Brinton at breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Funny coincidences. 
In scripture study I read only a bit because I was busy, but I did read 
about the Golden Rule. If oligopolies followed the golden rule, then 
they could produce at their profit maximizing quantities instead of a 
Nash equilibrium that drives down prices. Alas. More spiritually, I 
think the scripture about people casting out Devils and doing works 
in Christ's name and them him not knowing them can be applied to 
time. If I did righteous works in the past but forfeit them now, I know 
not God just as much as the false preachers who teach their own 
doctrines in the name of Christ. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2015 AT 11:28 PM 

Today was the scavenger hunt, so after waking up at too early am, 
we boarded the Caltrain bound for SF. Once we got there, we 
organized into groups and roamed the streets of San Francisco, 
doing crazy things. We hugged a tree and talked to it like an old 
friend, talked our way into a picture on a boat, barked like sea lions, 
asked “Where's Nemo” outside of the Bay Aquarium, and, my 
personal favorite, I dressed in my Stanford hoodie and we advertised 
“Take a picture with a Stanford student: $1.00” Believe it or not, we 
actually got a taker! However, our group lost steam around 1:00 pm, 
so after getting a snack at the bakery, we wandered through a 
bookstore and through Chinatown before a few of us decided to go 
back on the 4:15 Caltrain. That turned out to be a good call because 
it got me home and with dinner in my stomach in just enough time 
to Skype with Dad and Kent (Madre out of commission due to travel, 
but she requested notes from the padre. Why am I not surprised?) 
The one benefit of all the walking was the interesting conversation. I 
talked a lot with Emmanuel, who also lives on Schiff 2 and is from 
Kenya. During the conversation, he started asking about my church 
and its hours (knowing I was a missionary) and the spirit said “Invite 
him!” So I did and he said yes! I hope he comes and has a good 
experience. He said he went to Christian church every Sunday in 
Kenya. 
In scripture study today (which I did on the Caltrain on the way to 
SF), I read about Joseph of Egypt, his dreams and his trials. One 
takeaway is that, although the Lord's promises are sure, they don't 
always come in the time or ways that we imagine. Often they are 
fulfilled because of our trials. If Joseph had never been sold into 
slavery and cast into prison, he never would have become a ruler 
and saved his family. Sometimes the road to salvation leads us 
through interesting terrain. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2015 AT 9:42 AM 

Things are ramping up in the quarter as projects and midterms 
approach. I actually find my work enjoyable, which is a big blessing, 
the only issue is finding the time to do it all! I have made an effort to 
ensure that this work doesn't erode key spiritual activities: church, 
daily prayer and scripture study, institute, and communication with 
my family. In the latter, I could do better about really being engaged 
during our calls instead of wondering when I can get back to work. 
One way that I'd like o improve the quality of my prayers is by 
praying for one different person specifically by name in each prayer. I 
feel like I get stuck praying for myself, my family, and general groups 
of other people a lot of the time, so I know I can do better. 
Amanda's Friday Forum was really enjoyable. After midterms, I 
should talk to Catherine about doing one on my own mission. I may 
even be able to co-opt some of my PowerPoint I used with the 
Plymouth youth. I really enjoy the feelings I get when I revive mission 
experiences by teaching at Habla. Speaking of the Spirit, an 
important indicator of my spiritual well-being is whether I receive 
and follow promptings. I got at least one this week with inviting 
Emmanuel to church, which is a good sign. One thing I can do better 
is praying specifically for help on tests, assignments, and projects, 
crying to God for my metaphorical “flocks and fields.” I have full 
confidence that I have been and will be inspired as I do so. Being in 
a worldly place like Stanford makes it easy for sexually promiscuous 
thoughts or inappropriate language to seep into my brain, so I 
should first, minimize my exposure to those things, second, not 
“look twice” like David did, and third, not allow those thoughts to 
occupy my mind. If I strive to do these things, I trust that the Lord 
will protect me from the words and images in the outside world that 
I can't control. Finally, Inshould choose a new scripture to Ponderize 
this week so I can “always remember [Christ].” 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015 AT 12:26 AM 

Too late. Emmanuel came to church 
and liked it. Yay! 

One takeaway from my sacrament reflection today, “Pray for one 
different person by name in each prayer.” G'night. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2015 AT 8:53 PM 

Progress. Submitted Breakout and my Econ PSet. Worked on essay 
intro. Sang, Habla. Scheduled 3 meetings: church calling, PMA, and 
Hume center interview. Of course, this all had to be midterms week. 
In scripture study today I learned about Joseph finally triumphant in 
Egypt revealing himself to his brethren. I was impressed by his ability 
to forgive his brethren for selling him into slavery by recognizing that 
this was how God saved him and all his household from famine. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2015 AT 11:34 PM 

Worked. Had PMA meeting and discussed mentors and prof 
relationship building. Had meeting with Bro. Johnson at church who 
extended a call for me to work on the LDSSA institute committee, 
which I accepted. I think it's the right place for me as institute is the 
part of LDSSA that gets me most excited. Did a final review of 
Breakout and submitted it. Worked on my essay and got some intro 
stuff, although it definitely needs flow. Hopefully I can plunk 
something out by Friday to conference on. Made good progress on 
my movie rankings project only to discover that naive Bayes stinks 
for movie prediction and always have me four. At least I loaded the 
data, have p-values and know how to manipulate it. I hope Lorel (my 
partner) pulls through with a good classification algorithm. Oh yes, 
we had a speaker from the Copenhagen Networks Study in my 
IntroSem today. They gave 1000 students at a university in 
Copenhagen phones that tracked everything (with their permission) 
and studied the data. Apparently through wifi and Bluetooth scans 
alone, you can find out everything about people… 
On that's happy note, in scripture study I read of Joseph's family 
moving to Egypt, setting the stage for them to begin the Exodus to 
Canaan 400 years hence. In a somewhat unrelated lesson (more 
related to how whiny the Israelites were), I should be more proactive 
and externally oriented instead of reactive and internally oriented. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2015 AT 9:45 PM 

A good day today. I'm writing this before Habla because I hope to 
go to bed right afterwards and sleep in a bit. Tomorrow's a big day 
with an Econ midterm and a packed schedule. Today was fairly 
relaxed. I got my Rhetorical Analysis back in PWR and I got an A+, 
100%! (It pays to form good relationships with your teachers in 

subjects where the grading is highly subjective .. 
) Speaking of 
PWR, I worked on my Texts in Conversation (henceforth and forever 
known as TiC because I don't want to write that gargantuan phrase, 
nevermind that my complaining is much longer…). I reworked the 
intro a bit, so it's two pages double spaced. It's a bit much, but I 
wanted a good background, hook, and clear introduction of 
importance. I'm meeting with some peers to review it tomorrow, so 
hopefully I can make some progress before my conference with 
Shannon on Saturday and turning in the rough draft on Sunday. I did 
a bit more with loading data for the Movie Prediction project, and 
Lorel said that she met with Akash and worked on classification 
algorithms, which is promising. Tomorrow I'm taking a bye on 
chorale rehearsal to go to the 106A midterm review session, which I 
need to study for. So much to do, so much to do… 
In institute, we discussed cool stuff about President Uchtdorf's talk 
“The Way of the Disciple”. Kiley made a point that everyone seems 
for fulfillment, and we all consume something to fill that void, but 
the quality varies greatly. We can consume the spiritual equivalent of 
junk food or the fruit of the tree of life (harder to obtain, but so much 
better!) 

418 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2015 AT 11:38 PM 

Day of days. At least I slept in until 8:15. After that, I got up, did my 
morning routine, and worked a bit on my TiC and a bit on the Movie 
Ratings predictions. I went to a TiC peer review workshop at CoHo 
with Sima and Walter and we discussed our papers. As I've 
continued to write it tonight, I've struggled to stay “on message” of 
my goal of examining the Chinese dream and showing how each of 
the four points I identify is somehow influenced by the American 
Dream of the Cold War. It's easy to drift of into exclusively talking 
about either one. That's the difficulty with choosing something 
creative like the China dream, it can be laborious to connect it back 
to containment rhetoric, and I don't want to force it. I think there are 
a lot of goods individual ideas in the essay so far, but I have yet to 
make it a cohesive whole. After the workshop, I went to my voice 
lesson and then to my first midterm of my Stanford career in Econ! It 
went fairly well, I was well-prepared and inspired by the Spirit, and 
None of the questions really stumped me, although there were a few 
where I wasn't 100% sure of my answer. I finished with enough time 
to go back and check over my answers, which was good. After the 
midterm, I went straight to an IG (interactive grading) session for 
Assignment 2, where I got check pluses, which is good. I think the 
check plus encompasses a wide range though. Soon after we had 
106A sections and then this evening I went to a midterm review 
session. I really need to do more practice problems so I can prepare 
for the test. Catherine's initiative with the Office for Religious Life 
came through and all the LDS students were able to get the 
alternate midterm time for Wednesday so we can go to convocation 
with Elder Cook. Faith! 
In scripture study I read about the Israelites in bondage in Egypt and 
Moses. The little-noted incident of the Hebrew midwives standing 
up to Pharaoh and not killing the male children really impressed me. 
(That's way more pressure than standing up to a teacher about a 
religious event!) To me, it demonstrates the principle of integrity. 
Those women could not be bought, cajoled, or threatened into 
doing evil. Their souls were not for sale. Not at any price. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2015 AT 1:08 AM 

A good day today. I had to rousting my poor self for an interview 
with the Hume center at 9:30 am! Actually, I was up at 7:00 for a run, 
so it didn't really matter, although it did curtail breakfast a bit. I 
discussed my RA essay revisions (or what I remembered of them. 
Since they have the recording of my Hume center tutoring session 
and a full record of my revisions, it would be an interesting study in 
itself to examine the dichotomy between my remembered 
perceptions of my revisions and what actually happened.) After Econ 
sections, we has Friday forum outside at the Oval for frisbee, food, 
and fun. After 106A, I stuck around the area working on my TiC until 

4:30 pm, when I attended a lecture in MemAud by Thomas Picketty, 
an economist and author of “Capital in the 21st Century”. His focus 
is on wealth distribution. Same old hat that the poor get poorer and 
the rich get richer, but presented in interesting ways. Did you know 
that the average marginal tax rate for high income earners in the UK 
and the US was 82% from 1940 to 1980? They seemed to do fine 
then, didn't they? Now it's down to around 30 - 40% in the US. My 
summary of the lecture: Ronald Reagan caused wealth inequality. 
There was also an interesting graph of “income of parents” and 
“percent chance that college-aged child attends college. The 
correlation was almost perfectly positive. Meritocracy my fanny. 
Anyway, I also got a first draft of my TiC done for conferences with 
Shannon tomorrow. By my third topic of four I think I'd hit my stride, 
but revisions will be necessary. I also reviewed for the 106A midterm 
by working on assignment 4 and for a text-based version of 
hangman working all in a few hours! I think it helped a bit with 
understanding string manipulation. Speaking of programming, we 
still needs classification algorithm for the movie ratings project… 
In scripture study I learned about Moses, who was pretty doubtful of 
his ability to fulfill his calling. As a result, the Lord blessed him with 
signs to strengthen his faith, not I got God, whom Moses has spoken 
to, but in himself. After all, sometimes the Lord sees more in us than 
we see in ourselves. Well, not sometimes, always. 
169–299 SEARSVILLE RD, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2015 AT 1:17 AM 

Good day. Busy. Brunch at Wilbur. Delicious. Work. Conference with 
Shannon. Regression toward the mean as far as the quality of this 
essay. Then again, it is a first-stage rough draft. I studied for 106A 
and got through two section handouts with pretty good code. 
(Nothing exploded when I ran it) That's heartening. In the evening, I 
whaled, and I mean WHALED on the Movie Ratings project and after 
an existential crises over whether I should use a complicated linear 
regression machine learning algorithm that I didn't know how to 
implement, I ended up just doing my own algorithm. It takes the 
probability that a user gives a certain rating to a given genre times 
the probability that the movie is question got a certain rating. 
Sounds simple, but it involved a lot of dictionaries! I tried it on 60 
pieces of data from the training set and the predictions were quite 
accurate. (Total difference of -5, absolute difference of 19, squared 
difference of 24.) I put in a weight variable that can be changed to 
make the either the user's genre ratings or the movie's general 
ratings more important. Technically I could calibrate that variable 
with machine learning, but I don't think I'm up to it. After all, I 
basically learned Python for this project. Emmanuel also came and 
talked with me to tell me that he can't come to church tomorrow 
(today) because he has an exam for his job. Bummer, but I'm glad he 
followed up. I did invite him to institute though, or maybe he'll like 
FHE. 
In scripture study I read about “Let my people go!” and the Exodus. 
We give Pharaoh a hard time for continually changing his mind after 
the plagues are lifted, but don't we do the same thing in our lives? 
“Foxhole prayers” and foul-weather faith are hardly the path of 
discipleship, but I think it's easy to be complacent when things are 
going well. How can we maintain the same sense of yearning 
connection to God we feel in distress without being constantly (and 
sometimes painfully) reminded of it through difficulties? 
Communication is key. If I earnestly talk to God, it helps me 
recognize my reliance on Him in the good and the bad. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2015 AT 9:41 AM 

This week was quite busy with the confluence of projects, essays, 
and midterms into one great river of homework, sweeping aside all 
else! It won't be over until after my 106A midterm this week, but I 
can say that I worked very hard on all of my projects. I feel like as 
long as I put in my best effort to study, then I am entitled to ask for 
Heavenly Father's help with my work. Otherwise it would be 
hypocritical to pray for aid when I'd put in no effort, kind of like the 
table of the man with a stuck cart who asks for Hercules to help. 
Spiritually, scripture study and prayer have still been important 
priorities, and now so have a calling that makes institute even more 
important for me. I did miss FHE this week, but I'll go tomorrow. 
With a calling and home teaching, I look forward to being able to 
serve in the church more. It's so easy to get caught up in the selfish 
loop of living in my own little world where I study for myself, do fun 
things for myself, and life for myself. That's not life. “Whosoever 
shall save his life shall lose it, and whosoever shall lose his life for 
[Christ's] sake, shall find it again”. I should adopt a greater service 
mentality in applying he things I learn in class like, “How can these 
ideas about Economics be used to help other people?” I feel like my 
course load for this quarter is a little too much, as it precludes me 
from forming good relationships with my professors and other 
students because I'm always rushing off to do more work. I'll try to 
tone it down in the next quarter. Speaking of things I need to rush 
off to do, I should commit to 15 minutes of chorale practice daily so 
the concert doesn't sneak up on me. Once again it's that concept of 
“working to be worthy of Heavenly aid.” I know Heavenly Father 
helped me a lot this week with everything I had to do, and for that I 
should be grateful. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2015 AT 12:55 AM 

Good day. Essay, Movie Ratings, 106A practice midterm, Church, 
dinner with Kent and Mom at Menlo Grill. 

In scripture study I read of the Exodus, crossing the Red Sea, etc. 
Sometimes God tells us to take a path that appears impassible, 
uncomfortable, and counterintuitive. When we do, he opens it for us. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015 AT 12:00 AM 

Good day. PWR canceled because Shannon was sick, so I did a 
chapter in the Econ reading. Chorale practice, I need to 
memorize"Stars" because we're doing quarters, one on each part, 
on Thursday. Got a package from Aunt J. Yay! Angela asked me to 
do Friday forum on my mission. I'd actually been planning to go to a 
lecture at that time, but, duty calls. Went to FHE, which was fun. 
Brickelle shared a message on “Cast not away therefore they 
confidence.” And we played Balderdash. Went to Habla. Revised 
essay. Studied for 106A midterm. Wrote a program to “Yodaify” a 
sentence by putting the last half of the phrase first. Way too fun. 
In scripture study I learned about manna. I think we're as dependent 
on God as the Israelites were on manna, we just don't recognize it. I 
wonder how remembering that would change my life perspective… 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015 AT 11:24 PM 


Good day today. Big data ran tests. Program did alright in the test of 

50. We got 2nd in class for the in-class test, thus the frisbee. 
Miraculously got out early so I could make it on time for a Q&A 
session with Elder Quentin L. Cook. It was at the law school and 
there were maybe 100 people. Pretty small and relaxed. I sat in the 
second row and got to shake his hand. He covered two topics 
important to me. One was priorities and faith/work/life balance. That 
had been the question I'd been pondering and it was the first 
addressed. The second was on the LGBT community and the church. 
He shared a story about being a Stake President in San Francisco 
during the AIDS epidemic and having 17 members die. He told of 
one gay brother who cared for them all and was the last to pass 
away. That was the strongest spirit of the meeting for me, and Elder 
Cook even teared up. It was clear he hadn't been planning on 
sharing it but had been promoted to. 
After a switch in Econ to macro, I went back and worked/studied. 
LDS Convocation was at 7:30 pm and I went there with Kent and 
Mom. Lots of good talks, although Kent was critical of Elder Cook's 
talk on the need for greater moral education on college campuses 
(he focused on the Judeo-Christian tradition). I personally found 
nothing offensive about it, but I'm hard to offend. I don't have a big 
outrage complex. Which can be good or bad. 
Anyway, in scripture study I read about the Israelites in the 
wilderness getting water from the rock. I find it interesting that they 
were getting manna from God EVERY DAY and yet they still 
complained that they were going to perish in the wilderness for lack 
of water, and then were skeptical about whether God would actually 
bring water out of the rock, asking “Is the Lord among us, or not?” 
(Exodus 17:7). You just got manna this morning, man! Nevertheless, I 
think we also exhibit a similar degree of spiritual selectivity or 
blindness, whether it's ingratitude or failing to draw support for our 
faith from past experiences. 

169–299 SEARSVILLE RD, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° LIGHT RAIN 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015 AT 11:53 PM 

Good day today. Revised essay and had scones in PWR. Discussed 
Elder Cook's visit in institute. Learned about arrays in 106A. TOOK 
CS106A MIDTERM. And yes, that deserved screamcase. Actually, it 
went quite well, and I think I was able to give clean, correct solutions 
to all the problems, meaning there weren't any that stumped me. It's 
interesting that I worked earlier today on Hangman and adding 
GLines, and one question involved what I had been doing. I actually 
finished with 30 minutes to spare: enough time to check my answers 
(as opposed to the practice midterm when I had 0 minutes to spare). 
At the last moment, I did realize that a break statement that I 
included in Karel probably wasn't included in the Karel reader and 
thus I shouldn't have used it, but by then it was too late to change 
the program. Oh well. After that, I went to Habla. 
I read President Uchtdorf's talk, “You Are My Hands” today. His 
stories are always so memorable, so I think they're the talks that I 
think about the most. It's interesting that the picture of Christ I have 
in my room doesn't show His hands either. That's because I should 
be His hands. All to often I go about my day and see something 
wrong and think “somebody should do something.” In reality, “I 
should do something because that's what Christ would do if he were 
here. I should be the Good Samaritan, not the Levite. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 AT 12:29 AM 

Good day. Interesting discussions on data privacy, sampling bias that 
could lead to racism in IntroSem. Voice lesson good. Econ good. 
Death by Chocolate very good. 106A section. Chorale rehearsal 
good, although I still messed up on some parts that I'd specifically 
drilled this morning. Worked on essay and prepared to give my 
Friday forum on my mission tomorrow. I ran into Lizzy, a friend I 
haven't seen for a while due to extreme busyness, and invited her. 
She's busy with class, but was really interested in hearing about my 
mission. We had a cool conversation. Hey, at least I invited. 
In scripture study, besides prepping Friday forum, I read about the 
Law of Moses. One insight is that the Lord commands the children of 
Israel to empathize with strangers because they were strangers in 
Egypt. I though that was an interesting application of in-group/out-
group dynamics that was discussed in Convocation. The Lord tends 
to want us to expand our in groups. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2015 AT 12:50 AM 

Good day today. Not too busy. Had Econ section in the morning. I 
got my midterm back and I got a 96% Yay! That was a relief. I spoke 
on my mission for Friday Forum, which was well-received. I adapted 
my remarks from my presentation to the Plymouth youth. Afterwards 
I briefly talked with Shannon at a PWR chill/work session outside the 
bookstore that she invited us to come to since she'd been sick on 
Monday. I revised my TiC and submitted it tonight, hopefully greatly 
improved from the one last week. After that, I went home for pure 
work. A lot of readings and assignments have accumulated while I've 
been studying for finals, so I started chipping away at those. I got all 
the pieces of Hangman functioning, did some Econ and CS 
readings, and made a Prezi on Linear Classifiers for my Big Data 
class. I had way too much fun with that last one, adding their cute 
little graphics and lines. I also had dinner with Connor and Andrew 
at Lakeside. Oh yes, and Kent was accepted for his coterm in CS, so 
now he needs to decide whether or not to do it. 
In scripture study, besides presentation prep, I read about the 
tabernacle and the arc of the covenant/testimony in the center of the 
Israelite camp. I wonder if I do a good job of putting the temple, 
covenants, and my testimony at the center of my life. I hope there's 
another temple trip soon. I had conflicts for the last two, but the next 
I definitely want to go. 
PS. Mom and Dad sent me delicious brownies for Halloween. Yay! PS. Mom and Dad sent me delicious brownies for Halloween. Yay! 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2015 AT 9:53 PM 

Good day today. For the first time in a long, long while, I actually got 
my work done with time to spare. Oh, by the way, Happy Halloween! 
This morning I had brunch with Kent at Wilbur, then we Skyped with 
Mom and Dad amid serious technical difficulties. I finished up 
various assignments, then after agonizing for a while at about 9:00 
pm sat down to play GalCiv 3 (first computer game at all for almost 
two months). As soon as I got it booted up, Sheetal came in to talk, 
so we chatted for an hour. I then found that my computer had shut 
down and needed to restart. I wonder if it's a sign… 
In scripture study, I read about Old Testament temple ordinances 
and offerings. There's a lot I don't understand, but I do grasp that 
there are similarities in the garments and that both ancient and 
modern temple ordinances point toward Christ. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY SUNNY 


November 2015 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2015 AT 9:47 AM 

This was a busy week with the convergence of tests, projects, and 
essays, but I think I put in my best effort on all of those things, and 
Heavenly Father definitely guided me to do well on my tests as I 
prepared well. After it was all over, I even had a few hours to relax on 
Saturday night, which hasn't been the case for a long time. However, 
I do want to make sure that relaxation doesn't become 
procrastination with all the work there is to do, so I will relax 
sparingly and in varied ways: social activities and events, reading, 
games, and even dating. Speaking of dating, I haven't had time to 
really think about it since I've been so busy with midterms. I want to 
do it but I don't know how to start. So, my goal for this week is to 
learn about this church dating program and see whether or not it 
would be useful. There, that's my concrete goal to go and do. 
Despite being very busy with finals, I did stay consistent on prayer 
and scripture study (probably better than usual on prayer ; ) I still 
should work to get more out of my scripture study as sometimes I 
just write down one thought while others I record four or more. I'm 
glad that I was able to serve in my calling a little bit by doing Friday 
Forum (even if it was not the ideal time for me to do it given finals 
and other events I wanted to go to, that's callings!). I would like to 
do my home teaching but Grant hasn't gotten back to me about 
when our appointments are. I'll start at least by reviewing the 
message for this month. I should also figure out when my home 
teachers are going to visit me and make sure I have their phone 
numbers… For my calling, I should figure oh when Amanda, 
Katharine, and I are going to meet, and when we'll order food for 
Andrew's presentation. Today, since I finally finished my homework 
early, I plan to really make the Sabbath a delight and not do 
homework. Instead, I'll write to friends and family, contribute to the 
family journal, and come to Kent's Wiserside. I did end up playing a 
computer game maybe five minutes last midnight last night, which 
I'll avoid in the future. However, I am looking forward to a real day of 
rest. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2015 AT 10:37 PM 

A good Sabbath today. I forgot it was daylight savings time, but my 
phone automatically adjusted, so I just got an hour of extra sleep 
and didn't notice. I also forgot it was fast Sunday, so I had a 
wonderful brunch, than I began my fast when I remembered. 
Emmanuel came to church with me today, which was nice. Even 
though it was fast and testimony meeting, which is potentially 
dangerous for investigators, he seemed to enjoy it a lot. There were 
lots of comments on empathy. I did a quick “home teaching” 
message to two of my home teachees after church with my 
companion, who I'd just met. I put “home teaching” in quotes 
because the whole thing was maybe 15 minutes, 18 max. I had to 
leave for an IG, but still, I feel like there should be more profound 
contact than that. However, given my limited resources being on 
campus, I'm not sure exactly what I should do about it… After 
church I wrote letters and my Evernote, and I did a bit of music 
practice. At 7:00, I went with Kent to a Wiserside, a non-official 
church fireside for gay Mormons. The speaker, Jeff Benedict, is a 
journalist who interviewed the lone Mormon actor in “The Book of 
Mormon” Broadway musical. He didn't talk so much about that 
experience as various stories that each illustrated a certain threat of 
a theme. One was a talk by a stake president who discussed his 
wayward, criminal son, who eventually reformed himself and started 
w family outside the church. The stake president remarks, “If I were 
in his shoes, I may have done the same thing.” Another was a 
reading from Stuart Little about a classroom in which students make 
their own rules. One student proposes the rule of not poisoning 
anything but rats, and Stuart says that's unfair to the rats. Basically, 
when we treat people like rats, they act like rats, and we often want 
an easy solution for dealing with the “other” when there isn't one. A 
final thought was from his nine year old daughter. When Jeff asked 
her what craft she'd make for a congregation of gay Mormons, she 
drew a picture of Jesus with His hands outstretched, holding a heart 
in each hand. “Be more like children” and “love one another” was a 
thread there. Overall, I thought it was a good talk, and I think Kent 
enjoyed it too. 
In scripture study I read from Leviticus that one purpose of the 
Sabbath is to humble my soul. Another themes is that apparently 
arbitrary laws make sense when we have more knowledge. Maybe 
that will be the case with the doctrine about gays. Or maybe, like 
blacks and the priesthood, there will be some great change. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015 AT 11:51 PM 

Un buen día hoy. Fui a mi clase de PWR y casi tuve un ataque de 
corazon porque me di cuenta que no había puesto mi entrada en el 
blog antes de la clase. Por suerte, lo había imprimido y lo traje 
conmigo a la clase. Shannon tuvo misericordia y me permitió 
ponerlo justo después de la clase sin problemas. Creo que voy a 
estudiar Taiwán como parte específica de la influencia de los Estados 
Unidos sobre el Sueño de China. El ensayo para el coro fue bien, 
aunque todavía hay partes que necesito practicar. Fui a 106A, y 
después de la clase, tuvieron los midterms para nosotros! Fue como 
un parque zoológico tratando de sacar el mío, pero por fin lo logré y 
no podía creer mis ojos! Había sacado un 120/120, una nota 
perfecta!!!!! Solo cuatro personas en la clase entera lo recibieron y yo 
no esperaba ser uno de ellos. Fue una gran bendición y se que no lo 
habría recibido sin la ayuda de Padre Celestial. Más tarde, fui a la 
clase de maestros para el coro para escucharle a alguien cantar 
“Manda a los bufones” (“Send in the Clowns” en inglés). Màs tarde, 
tuve una lucha interior sobre si debo ir a la noche de hogar. Mi 
consciencia me ganó y fui para escuchar al mensaje de Josh Jones, 
quien compartió tres historias con lecciones espirituales. Salí antes 
del juego y trabajé hasta Habla a las 10:00. Repase el alfabeto con 
Nicolás, y claro que por eso todavía estoy hablando español. Es 
divertido pero me cansan mis dedos… 
En mi estudio de las escrituras el día de hoy, aprendí que cualquier 
ofrecimiento que hago a Dios debe ser de mi libre y buena 
voluntad. No hay que quejarme al dar un regalo! Buenas noches! 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015 AT 11:52 PM 

Unexpected day. (El día menos pensado.) I woke up feeling excited 
and ready to face the world. (No, that's not the unexpected part!) I 
went on my run, took a shower, and laid down for scripture reading. 
While reading, I noticed I had this uncomfortable bloating sensation 
in my stomach. Thinking I'd just eaten too much, I decided to make 
breakfast light. Despite that, the pain got worse, and I had these on-
and-off cramps. After some consideration, I decided to stay home 
from my IntroSem (we just had a speaker today anyway) and I did a 
little bit of work and took a nap. I woke up feeling much better, but I 
decided to try eating a lunch snack and seeing how I held that down 
before going anywhere. I did and I still felt alright, so I went through 
the rest of my day as usual, which really meant going to Econ and 
then an optional lecture on the calculus of microeconomics by 
Marcelo. (I did Thursday's economics reading right before class. Five 
hours is a lot of econ!) I refilled my bike tires so it rides like a dream 
and got to work. I'm actually getting fairly ahead in my classes, or at 
least I'm on top of the readings. I did a little bit of work on Yahtzee 
for 106A understanding everything that's going on and getting the 
code for dice rolls going. I also reviewed more sources for my RBA, 
as I need an outline by next Monday and a partial draft by next 
Wednesday. I don't exactly understand how any of our research will 
be quality when we do it in a week… I know they say that your TiC 
research is your RBA research, but in my case, I'm going from 
descriptions of a general idea to a very specific application in a 
specific case. The advantage is that I reduce generalization, the 
disadvantage, more research. Anyway, progress was made. 
Being sick, even for a short time, always makes me more grateful for 
how wonderfully my body functions. In scripture study, I read the talk 
“A Plea to My Sisters” by Russell M Nelson, aka “A Feminist 
Manifesto”. I think as a church culture we need to change to be 
more inclusive toward women. Can't demand no doctrinal changes 
when you don't have the spiritual foundation for it! Anyway, I'm not 
exactly sure what that means for me personally, besides being an 
advocate for equal rights. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2015 AT 11:55 PM 

Good day. No illness. Discussed RBA in PWR as I continue to hash 
out outline ideas. Had a great time at institute discussing the role of 
agency in answering prayers and President Uchtdorf's talk “Waiting 
on the road for Damascus.” I worked a bunch on the Yahtzee 
assignment for 106A and basically go everything working except the 
methods to check the validity of a given die combination for a given 
score combination. While working yesterday and today, I listened to 
the entire musical track of “The Lord of the Rings” (With the 
exception of “Into the West”, which I reserve for special occasions.) 
It was quite an emotional experience. The adventure, the danger, 
the despair, the hope, the eventual triumph, the return home. (All 
vaguely reminiscent of my mission.) I also went to Habla tonight, 
which was fun. 
In scripture study, I read the aforementioned conference talk by 
President Uchtdorf. For me, the main message was to be an actor 
instead of being acted upon. That's how I gain a testimony or 
achieve a desire. Of course, it must be action in the attitude of 
“Lord, what wouldst thou have me to do?” No self-centered interest 
here! 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015 AT 12:45 AM 

Good day. Thursdays are always my busiest, and this one was no 
exception. I gave my presentation on linear classifiers for Big Data, 
which was well-received. I practiced in my voice lesson. I learned 
about aggregate supply and demand in Econ. Today was Mom's 
birthday, so I FaceTimed with her and Kent and Dad after my 106A 
section. She was very excited to get a new pink Kitchen Aid from me 
and Kent. After the call I grabbed some dinner (Death by 
Chocolate!) and rushed off to chorale rehearsal. We ran all the pieces 
tonight. Although there are some parts that I practiced that I still 
didn't get, I was able to do fairly well on all the songs. Still need to 
work on stuff through. Speaking of work, after chorale I worked on 
my essay outline for PWR and polishing off the Yahtzee assignment, 
which I've merely done, just two more Boolean methods for large 
and small straights and I'm good. 
In scripture study I was extremely tired and learned that I should try 
studying the scriptures not on my bed. It didn't help that I was 
reading about the furnishings in the Tabernacle. I tried to visualize it, 
but my brain switched to alpha sleep and became addled. It was 
also recently publicized that the church added same-sex marriage to 
its list of definitions of apostasy and will not allow children of same-
sex parents to be baptized until they are out of the household, have 
specifically disavowed same-sex relationships, and received special 
approval. Needless to say, Kent is not happy. I can't say I'm happy 
about this policy either. It seems to run contrary to what Elder Cook 
said about building bridges to the LGBTQ community. Well, we'll 
see how it plays out. Can't miss the forest of the beauty of the 
gospel for one ugly tree though. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015 AT 10:50 PM 

Eventful day today. Good. I'm trying to get to bed early since I'm 
going on a temple trip tomorrow. I don't really have the time, but I'm 
going to make the time, since I committed to go next time I had the 
chance. Additionally, I thought about it and figured that if I don't go 
now, I probably won't be able to go all quarter. This morning, I was 
charged with procuring the food for Friday Forum. I met with Brother 
Hunt who gave me the p card for the church, and later Kent drove 
with me to Trader Joe's, where we picked up wraps and salads that 
were well-received. While he drove, we discussed the development 
with the new church policies on gay couples and their children. He 
was understandably outraged, and I tried to be sympathetic (which I 
am. I'm not so much outraged as disappointed and confused. But, I 
can sympathize.) He's writing an article for HuffPost religion blog on 
his reactions (weird coincidence, he was invited right before the 
news came out). His first draft was very fiery, including dropping the 
b-word, bigot. After he sought counsel from the Madre, he softened 
it to be less enraged heffalump and more empathic Eeyore. In a later 
phone conversation with Moodre today on the same topic, she 
expressed her frustration and confusion about the news and 
forwarded me the old and new drafts. I thought the new one was 
much improved, removing the b-word and focusing on an empathic 
image: I existed in the borderlands of this church that is part of me 
and now even that meager strip is being burned away, where and I 
to go to find fulfillment? I got a little ready at the end, Madre said 
that she did too. It's so sad and frustrating that we don't have a 
better solution for our LGBTQ brothers and sisters. Why not? Why 
can't we step up as a church, as followers of Christ, and embrace 
them? Isn't that what He would do? I guess it starts with me. 
Anyway, the rest of the day was good. Andrew Lee gave a fun Friday 
Forum and his mission to Korea. Alisha Adams, head TA, taught 
CS106A in lieu of Mehran who's traveling, and she did a really good 
job. I worked. Then I worked some more. Then I had dinner with 
Connor and Andrew. Then I did more work. Toodles. 

In scripture study, I read more about the tabernacle. I guess one 
reason that there were so many repetitive sacrifices is for the same 
reason we take the sacrament every week. “Lest we forget, lest we 
forget.” Additionally, making vague ideas like mercy and atonement 
concrete with symbols like sprinkling blood is a way to encapsulate 
lots of ideas, doctrine, and emotional associations into one powerful 
symbol. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2015 AT 12:33 AM 

Good day. 

Woke up early to go to the temple, nice trip. I wrote some of my 
impressions in my daily study. Read a nice companion essay from 
Mom on Kent's blog post. Talked with Lizzy for two hours about my 
mission. Went to FroSoLsnguage Party where you couldn't speech 
English, so I survived on Spanish. It was fun. 

Building Zion is a covenant and part of it is building communities of 
love and support. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2015 AT 9:56 AM 

There were a lot of good things that happened this week. Heavenly 
Father blessed me to do well on my 106A midterm and softened 
Shannon's heart so I could post my printed blog without a grade 
deduction. Heavenly Father healed me from my illness quickly, which 
actually allowed me to make needed progress in accomplishing my 
work. I was able to go to the temple, which was a really needed 
experience after the stress of the church policy announcement. 
Heavenly Father also answered my fast to help me build 
relationships. I had a good long talk with Lizzie about my mission 
and I talked to lots of people who came by my room yesterday. My 
scripture study this week was lacking. I put in the time but I didn't 
get a lot out of it because I kept falling asleep and it was about 
building the tabernacle, so it was a bit dry. This week, I will try 
scripture study either standing up or sitting at my desk to see if that 
makes a difference. I felt like my prayers were decently meaningful, 
although I could still improve my focus with them. This week is 
probably going to involve a lot of hunkering down for concerts, 
essays, and midterms, so I'll just have to make sure that I keep the 
spiritual lifeline flowing. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2015 AT 11:55 PM 

A good Sabbath. Finished some Econ reading this morning. Church 
was good. In all the flurry of emotions after the same-sex couples 
policy announcement, the Bishopric made a very good statement 
focusing on mourning with those that mourn, comforting those who 
stand in need of comfort, and “seeking that Jesus” who is the center 
of our gospel living in the first place. They expressed their love to 
LGBT members and said “we need you”. It was a moving message 
and I'm glad that Kent was there to hear it. There was also an 
interesting talk on growth through vulnerability, which has definitely 
been my experience. Lots of spiritual growth comes from vulnerable 
moments, like this last week. The policy certainly hasn't been the 
most traumatizing for me, but it has made me reflect on my religion 
and my role as a builder of Zion, a place where anyone who is “pure 
in heart” can rest. In fact, for all the heartache it has caused, this 
policy is beneficial in several ways: 

(1) It makes the struggles of LGBT members salient for church 
leaders. When they have to interview the sweet eight-year-old 
daughter of a gay couple who wants to get baptized, they'll have a 
face to put to this issue rather than a label. 
(2) It has pulled members off the sidelines. Many people who were 
quietly minding their own business but harbored sympathies toward 
gay Mormons are now “out” and expressing their support. This is 
happening on both an individual and a ward level, as Mom can 
attest from her Evernote. This micro-level cultural change has the 
potential to permeate the whole church. 
(3) It can promote expressions of love. Now, I'm not necessarily that 
the policy does promote expressions of love. It can be extremely 
divisive and has already resulted in many a social media flame war. 
However, from what I have seen in my family and ward and in myself, 
something as painful as this can be a catalyst for us to reach out to 
each other and say “I'm here for you. I'm with you. I love you.” 
Now, I'm not saying that this is the intention of the policy or that 
these effects make it good. I don't like it. However, these are some 
unexpected results. 
Truly, “God moves in mysterious ways, his wonders to perform” and 
“the bud may have a bitter taste, but sweet will be the flower.” I 
think that hymn is my mantra for all the experiences I've had with a 
gay Mormon brother. 
Anyway, after church we had a family call and discussed more of the 
NEWS, then I wrote my Evernote, emailed people, and did a bit of 
work. This evening I went to a soft cheese tasting 
“FroSoConnossuer” event in which we got to try six different soft 
cheeses. My favorite was actually a Californian imitation Brie. 
Smooth and buttery and not too salty. However, I definitely prefer 
hard cheeses to soft, like Parmesan, mmm… 
In scripture study I read President Uchtdorf's talk “Forget Me Not.” I 
like how he's always focused on the functional parts of the gospel, 
parts that make us feel good about our lives. Two lessons: quality 
and priorities. Commit myself to the things that matter most and 
don't overextend myself. 

200–268 SANTA TERESA LN, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015 AT 11:46 PM 

Good day today. We had a mixer with another class in PWR 
discussing our research topics. Their theme was “Two Truths and Lie: 
the Rhetoric of Authenticity.” They mostly focused on biographies 
and documentaries, although there were a few interesting pieces, 
one on the power of personal narrative in rape prevention programs 
and institutional change and another on the inauthenticity of 
advertisers of sugar. Of course, we all know that CORN is the root of 
all evil. Yup, corn and corn subsidies make for cheap high fructose 
corn syrup, which gets allows it to be added to everything as empty, 
addictive calories. Not only that, but the subsidies keep ethanol 
unrealistically cheap, as it really is a terrible biofuel. Why don't we 
make biofuels out of algae, which is more energy dense and doesn't 
take up arable land? To say nothing of the gerrymandering and 
political scallawaggery that surrounds the pork that keeps corn 
subsidies going. Okay, end rant on the evils of corn. It's not even 
nutritious, and they call it a vegetable?! Just kidding, now I end my 
corn rant. Anyway, I went to institute today because chorale practice 
was moved to Wednesday and we discussed President Uchtdorf's 
“forget me not” talk. 106A was good, and I'm reasonably ahead, 
which left me plenty of time to work on my essay for PWR. I'm about 
eight pages in, which is farther than I need to be, but I still need to 
introduce my sources and tie back into the Chinese dream better. 
Angela also texted me about making this Friday Forum a roundtable 
discussion on the church's same-sex marriage policy changes 
moderated by Bob Brigham. I enthusiastically endorsed the idea, so 
we'll be putting our heads together over how to email the LDSSA 
about it tomorrow night. Tomorrow's also when I get to tour Google! 
Today in scripture study I say at my desk and read about the 
Israelites making a golden calf. It's easy to ridicule them for this, but 
don't we so often turn to the golden calf of entertainment 
(television, football, video games) or the golden calf of greed 
(conspicuous consumption, workaholism, and pride) and all other 
sorts of things we expect will make us happy when God seems 
absent? 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° PARTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2015 AT 12:01 AM 


Good day today. Google day. Meaning we toured Google campus 
with my Big Data class. I'm being eaten by the Google! But so is the 
rest of the world, so it's alright. Our host took us to a few landmarks, 
discussed his projects, and had s few other Googlers give simple 
presentations on things like software infrastructure and structuring 
data. We then had lunch. Google has great soft serve! After 
returning and going to Econ, I went to my IG for 106A, which was 
good. Angela Cattani and I met over dinner and discussed what we 
wanted to say in the email to the LDSSA about this Friday Forum's 
discussion about gay Mormons and the same-sex policy. We were 
able to put down some good thoughts (partially borrowed from 
Kent) along with appropriate GIFs. We discussed the policy and 
she's pretty outraged about it. I expressed my thoughts moderately, 
but we definitely agreed on overall points. After dinner, 
homeworkation. 
Today in scripture study I became tired despite the fact that I was 
sitting at my desk. One impression was of the power of fasting, 
which was a catalyst for Moses to receive then Ten Commandments. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015 AT 12:06 AM 

Good day. Tis late so this'll be short. Discussed drafts in PWR. My 
peer reviewer asked how my paragraphs connected back to my 
thesis, and they don't connect back to half because the paper is only 
half written. I opted for all the historical background and goals first, 
then analysis of US policy, rather than spoon feeding the reader 
history as necessary while making the arguments. It's just cleaner to 
me that way. Besides, we all know that when you're spoon feeding 
and your baby goes crazy, you end up with applesauce on the 
ceiling. We had lunch rehearsal for chorale, and things are 
improving, but there are still parts that I'd like to be more solid. 
Practice practice practice. CS was good. Later today I went to a 
discussion on how to talk to faculty. Basically, “put those missionary 
skills to use!” I had Habla tonight and we talked about dates with 
Nicolas. 
In scripture study, I remember being sleepy. I also remember reading 
about the numbering of the children of Israel, which probably 
accounted for my drowsiness. From Exodus 35, which discusses the 
artisans building the tabernacle, I was reminded that my talents are 
not my own, that success comes by inspiration, and that I should 
invest in a greater cause than getting a big house. Wise words. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015 AT 12:16 AM 

Good day. Busy Thursday as always. Had a speaker from Amazon in 
BigData who talked about e-commerce recommendation algorithms. 
Had a voice lesson and there was an observer BEEP BEEP BEEP. She 
was just a voice teacher learning from the masters. I did have GBMB 
(Gordon Blake Major Breakthrough) with rounding my lips, which was 
good. I must study for the Econ midterm on Tuesday. Had a meeting 
with Prof Widom and my project of visualizing trends in firearm 
homicides over time and she seemed supportive. Had CS106A 
section. Picked up my choir folder from FedEx. It is very large. Had 
Death By Chocolate. had rehearsal. Heavenly Father definitely 
helped me, because I was able to sing well and got s lot of the tricky 
parts I'be been working on. That just ties into my comments about 
talents from last night. 
Speaking of scripture study, I learned from the Israelite ability to 
forget present blessing while pining for future ones. That seems to 
be a universal human trait. The infinite capacity for taking things for 
granted. Like the fact that they're getting manna from heaven, and 
what do they talk about? “Moses, we have no meat!” Whiny whiny 
whiny. God probably feels the same way about me when I don't 
appreciate blessings like being at Stanford or having a loving family. 
Count your blessings. Name them one by one. Blessing search 
efficiency O(N) = N. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2015 AT 12:02 AM 

A good day today. Not as busy as yesterday, but still a lot to do. I 
had my Econ section in the morning, which was taped, o goodie. We 
then had Friday Forum, which was a conversation on the church's 
policy changes on same-sex marriage. Just this morning, the church 
reached some clarification softening the statements somewhat 
leaving the possibility for exceptions open. It was a good discussion, 
and not rancorous. Kent came and talked about his perspective as a 
gay Mormon, and I talked about how, from the perspective of having 
a gay brother, I want a place for the gay Mormon community in the 
church and in our community. The Spirit was definitely there. Brother 
Brigham, the member of the Bishopric moderating the discussion, 
even mentioned that our stake presidency encouraged writing 
letters to the them that they'd forward to their leaders to express our 
feelings. If this is the rising generation of church leaders, it gives me 
hope. 
Anyway, after that, I had 106A, then I did homework, as I had an 
Econ PSet and RBA draft due tonight. I got them done though. I had 
dinner with Connor, Peter, Parker, and Andrew and Lakeside [no 
Ricker on Fridays and Saturdays :( ]. I had dress rehearsal for chorale 
from 7:00 to 10:00. It went well, although there are still a few notes I 
have trouble getting, and I think my voice was a bit tired. That and 
the space was different. Hopefully all goes well in the concert 
tomorrow! 
In scripture study today, I read about some Israelites getting 
swallowed by the earth or killed by a plague for disobeying the Lord 
and seeking the priesthood unrighteously. The larger story was the 
evil report of the spies though. They surveyed the same territory as 
Joshua and Caleb but came back with an “evil report” because they 
chose to focus on the negative aspects of the land. There's a similar 
temptation to be overly critical either of myself or others. Brother 
Brigham mentioned this concept, saying that he can guarantee that 
sometime in the future there will be something that the church does 
that we don't like. We'll have to choose whether or not we react 
negatively and combatively or with restraint and introspection. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° CLEAR 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2015 AT 12:12 AM 

A good day, was today. Productive, is was. Yoda, I am. Annoy you, I 
will, with this syntax. Just kidding. (Or, “Kidding, I am just.”) Anyway, 
today was eventful. This morning, I saw that my grade on Canvas for 
my TiC had been posted and I got 100%! I guess Shannon really 
likes my writing. That does motivate me to do my best on the RBA. 
To be honest, I think the RBA is coming easier than the TiC in terms 
of writing because the topic is better defined. However, I still need 
to integrate sources and decide how much historical context to 
include. That reminds me, I should set up a Hume Appointment for 
this week to get some more RBA feedback. In the morning, I worked 
and studied Econ. Then I called my family. Yay! In the afternoon, I 
studied Econ and worked on the CS assignment, which is actually 
going quite well, considering I started it today. I've hit three of five 
milestones, although they're probably the three easiest ones. At 
night, I sang. We had our Fall concert for Chamber Chorale tonight 
and 8:00, and it went well. There were some parts that I normally get 
that I messed up on, but there were a lot of parts where I did better 
than normal. I definitely felt the Spirit guiding me in answer to my 
prayers (as it has done in all assignments, projects, and tests I have 
had). Kent and a number of other people from the LDSSA came, 
which was nice of them. Now's the time to start learning the music 
for Lessons and Carols, which is coming up in a few weeks. I'll 
probably lock myself in the basement over Thanksgiving break and 
just whale on it along with my CS assignment and Big Data project. 
Fun. Well, that about accounts for my day, unless you want me to tell 
you about making HashMap databases and constructors for 
name/array objects. 
In scripture study I read about the “rock incident” where Moses says, 
hey Israel, you want me to give you water, and strikes a rock for 
water to come out. This was contrary to the Lord's instructions of 
speaking to the rock to make it gush water. Basically, the lesson I 
took away was that it's important to do things the Lord's way, not 
Gordon's way. Speaking of which, I need to speak with Emmanuel to 
see if he can meet with the missionaries this week. Perhaps this week 
I'll have time to breathe. Or perhaps I'll just take a deep breath on 
Sunday and hold it for the rest of the week. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2015 AT 10:13 AM 

This week, I felt very blessed and tried to express my gratitude to 
the Lord in prayer. I was able to do well on a number of academic 
things, like my PWR paper, as well as in the Chorale concert. I know 
that those blessings came from Heavenly Father. I think my prayers 
were improved by the frequent expression of this gratitude. 
However, I should remember to be grateful in all circumstances and 
not just for very salient blessings. Additionally, I'd like to include a 
little more “listening” time in my prayers. As a I am in an 
environment with a lot of foul language, as appropriate, I should ask 
people to refrains from swearing when around me and ask Heavenly 
Father to help me keep my thoughts clean. I did my scripture study 
at my desk this week, which helped with staying awake (a little bit). I 
was able to glean some insights from Old Testament passages that I 
thought were a little obtruse, but I'd like to more actively seek to 
apply what I learn day to day. Today, I'm planning to speak with 
Emmanuel about meeting with the missionaries. I'm grateful for the 
opportunity I had to help craft this Friday Forum and that Angela 
was receptive to the prompting to focus it on the church's new 
same-sex policies. Which reminds me that I should try to get the 
forum for this week organized. I do want to faithfully serve in that 
calling as well as being a home teacher, so I should make an effort to 
get to know my home teachees and companion better. On the more 
practical end of things, it would be a good idea for me to prepare a 
packing list and a list of things that I want to get done during break. 
This time next week I should be with my family! How exciting! 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2015 AT 11:52 PM 

A good Sabbath today. Church was good. We had a “meet the 
Mormons” Sunday with lots of short talks focused on people's 
conversion stories and our basic beliefs. I got to bless the sacrament, 
which was nice. There was also a linger longer afterwards. This 
evening, I had a dinner with a bunch of other Mormon freshman at 
Brother Brigham's house. He's the member of the bishopric that 
moderated last Friday Forum. It was a good time, but it took, like, 
three hours, so I have no time. I am have now begun blasting 
Chorale Christmas music and won't stop until after the concert on 
December 5th. That's only 20 days away, AaaaaAAAAAAAAAH! 
In scripture study I read President Uchtdorf's talk “Of Regrets and 
Resolutions.” In church we talked about another talk of his, “It Works 
Wonderfully.” Both of those talks discussed simplifying and cutting 
back on things that seem important in the short term but aren't so 
much in the long run. I can definitely see that with all my classes and 
singing. I think it's too much. Not absolutely more than I can do 
physically, but rather too much to have a balanced life. So, next 
quarter, I'll be cutting back. For now, though, I just have to work. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015 AT 12:05 AM 

Good day. Day 2 of blasting Chorale Christmas music. If I could find 
MIDI files for everything, that would be glorious. However, we had 
rehearsal today and even the crazy “Ding Dong Merrily on High” 
kind of made sense to me, so that's promising. I sent out an email 
plea for someone to help me record a few pieces, we'll see if it gets 
answered… 
I got good revision ideas for my essay in PWR and conferenced with 
Shannon, who had positive feedback. Yay! 106A was good, we 
discussed search and sort. I actually finished up the NameSurfer 
assignment today in not too much time. I thought that it would take 
a lot longer. That's a good thing because my schedule Wednesday 
and Thursday is totally wiped, then Friday my full PWR draft is due, 
so I should get cracking on that. I also went to FHE and Evan 
Magnusson shared a nice thought about feeding dogs dark 
chocolate and hydrogen peroxide. (Trust me, it was a metaphor 
about how Heavenly Father sometimes improves our lives through 
painful circumstances.) I also went to Habla, which was fun. 
In scripture study I learned about Baalam. “Always listen to your 
donkey!” That's what I say! Perhaps a deeper lesson is that Balak was 
trying to do his own will his way. Perhaps his people could've been 
spared from the Israelites if they'd repented (Nephi says as much in 
the Book of Mormon). However, instead of taking the high road of 
reform, Balak thought he could get a quick fix by bribing a prophet 
to curse the Israelites. How often do we overlook the simple yet 
rigorous solutions of the gospel in search of an “easier” quick fix to 
our problems? Moral of the story, it doesn't work out very well. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015 AT 12:24 AM 

Good day. Student presentations in Big Data. Argued about the 
ethics of companies purposely creating the Internet echo chamber 
to increase click-through rates. Had Econ midterm. Didn't go as well 
as the first one, but I think I was able to figure out most things. I 
actually thought some of the questions were harder than the 
homework. Oh well, I studied hard. I worked a lot on my PWR essay, 
so now I just have to write the conclusion and revise, revise, revise. 
Had faculty night at FroSoCo and talked to Jennifer Widom for a 
long time, which is good. BRT (building relationships and trust). I 
also talked with Emmanuel about meeting with the missionaries this 
Friday. Vikki, a dormmate, offered to record the bass part for some 
of my chorale pieces yay! I lent her the music and then realized that I 
needed it for practice tomorrow. I went back to tell her and walked 
into a convo on teen suicides in Palo Alto. Awk. I did sit down and 

participate, so at least I learned something today. .. 
In scripture study I read about the Israelites preparing to enter the 
promised land. I was impressed that when Moses learned that he 
would soon die, he immediately inquired of the Lord to find 
someone to replace him as the congregation's leader. It's clear that 
for all the trouble they caused him, Moses loved the Israelites and 
his first thought was of them. Charity never faileth. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015 AT 12:13 AM 

Good day today. Had a workshop on our RBAs in PWR and I made 
progress. It's basically all written except for one or two more 
concluding sentences. Good time at institute, discussed “The Hope 
of God's Light” by President Uchtdorf. Good times in 106A. I had my 
IG and did well on my assignment. Had chorale practice today. We 
ran through ALL the Christmas music (except for a few pieces we'd 
looked at last time). It actually went better than I thought, but I still 
have a lot to learn. We also got three more congregational hymns 
today. Eek! I made the order for food for Friday Forum at CoHo. 
There was a party for Habla as it's the last class of the year. There 
were papusas, but they were all taken by the time I got to them. I 
talked to a lady whose Nephew had recently died and was in 
mourning. Just like being on my mission… 
Talking to her reminded me of the “hope of God's light.” It's 
perfectly understandable that she's grieving, but it seems sad to me 
that the only way she sees to deal with it is to wallow in her sorrow 
until time heals the ragged edges of the hole in her heart. It doesn't 
have to be that way! Christ's Atonement can fill the holes in our 
hearts completely. Of course, this happens on the Lord's timetable, 
but we can begin receiving light now. Isn't that empowering? When 
things like this happen, it just makes me grateful for the gospel in my 
life to provide a different perspective on the vicissitudes of life. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2015 AT 12:15 AM 

Good morning. It's morning because I went to see a musical with 
Kent called “If/Then”, and only just got back. It details two scenarios 
in the life of a 39-year-old divorced woman who moves to New York 
to start fresh. Basically the idea was that small choices make a big 
difference, although not always as big as we think. I liked it, 
especially the way some elements came together in the second act, 
but Kent definitely like it more. Today we also had interesting 
student presentations in my IntroSem and I learned about singing 
“under the tongue” in my voice lesson. We had an interesting guest 
speaker in Exon who discussed global economic trends with lots of 
cool graphs and argued that the U.S. is the healthiest large economy 
in the world right now. Busy, busy day. Now, to bed. Tomorrow at 
this time I'll be flying to Michigan. 
In scripture study I reflected on not being discouraged from entering 
into the land that the Lord has prepared for us. I think so often we 
make petty excuses and rationalizations to justify not fully partaking 
in God's blessings and living underneath our privileges. It would be 
silly for the Israelites to camp on the edge of the promised land 
forever, and so too is it for us to wait only on the cusp of 
discipleship. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2015 AT 3:34 AM 

Good day. I'm standing in the airport in Michigan right now, after 
flying the red eye from SFO and getting fitful sleep (we departed 
around 10:50 pm PST and arrived at 6:00 Am. 

Break 

Now I'm home and just had a lovely breakfast of pumpkin waffles 
and bacon. Mmm… It's good to be home. Anyway, Friday was busy. 
Econ section in the morning, then I picked up food for Friday Forum 
from Coho, which was good. Got FacePamphlet assigned in CS, so I 
began work on that today. I submitted my PWR roughly draft, and a 
nice person in FroSoCo recorded some Bass parts of Chorale pieces 
for me. In the evening, Emmanuel and I met with the missionaries at 
the church for a restoration lesson. It went well, then at the end, the 
missionaries invited him to get baptized. BEEP BEEP BEEP! Imagine 
my surprise when he said “yes”! It does seem like he sincerely wants 
to join the church, although I doubt he really understands what that 
entails. With time, with time… 
In scripture study (yesterday, now, as it's Saturday), I prepare for the 
lesson. So, I guess I learned about asking in faith… 

ROMULUS, MI, UNITED STATES • 34° LIGHT SNOW 

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2015 AT 9:51 PM 

A good day today. It felt short because I woke up at 11:30 after 
taking a nap after my previous journal entry after breakfast at 7:00 to 

8:00 am. Nevertheless, my day was quite occupied. It snowed all day 
(more than 8 inches!) so we decided to cocoon inside, cook, and do 
homework. I made major progress on my CS assignment. It's 
basically done except for implementing the graphics, which is 
exciting. I guess I have a bit of a knack for this CS stuff. I also worked 
on my Econ PSet by made less progress because two of the five 
problems are on topics that we covered neither in the class nor the 
reading. ...... me not happy! We have one lecture before this 
puppy is due during dead week, so I guess they expect us to do 
those problems the night after the the lecture, since the PSet is due 
the next day. I also did some cooking, as we had lovely butternut 
squash risotto with pumpkin rolls, pumpkin chocolate chip cookies 
with marshmallow creme, and pear and Gorgonzola salad. Mmm… 
(The marshmallow creme was like ooblec though: super sticky, 
viscous, and hard to work with.) I also practiced “In the Bleak 
Midwinter” with Kent and did some Chamber Chorale practice, as 
dead week is just going to be filled with Chorale rehearsals and 
performances. Why am I constantly working? 
In scripture study I learned that although church leaders make 
mistakes, God corrects them in time. Ex Nephi and the mission 
fulfillment of Samuel's prophecy. How long does it take? I don't 
know? 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 28° LIGHT SNOW 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2015 AT 2:50 PM 

This week was good for missionary work, as the lesson with 
Emmanuel went well. I can't believe he said that he wants to be 
baptized! Well, I'll just do whatever I can to support him and answer 
any of his questions. My scripture study was pretty solid this week. 
Well, at least I didn't fall asleep. I even got it in when I was super 
tired on Saturday night. Now I just should make sure that I keep that 
going on the break (along with running in the morning). My prayers 
have been alright. I've made appreciable progress with the goal of 
praying for one new person my name in each prayer, so now I need 
a new goal. Gratitude would be natural for this week. Speaking of 
which, I want to dedicate one scripture study this week to gratitude. 
I'm so grateful and excited to be with my family. I should make sure 
that I don't lose that feeling in the stress of cooking and doing 
homework. I have made decent progress on my projects, so 
hopefully I won't be totally tied down working this week. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 27° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2015 AT 7:09 PM 

A good Sabbath today. There was an eenteresting talk in church that 
discussed sand as a metaphor both for our insignificance and great 
potential in God's eyes. At first I didn't really see where the speaker 
was going, but there were some tie-ins at the end, and I appreciated 
that it wasn't cookie cutter. There was also discussion on faith in 
Elder's quorum, tangentially related to the policy, which was kind of 
meh. There was an undertone of “batten down the hatches and hold 
the fort!” So so made a comment that faith gives us a framework to 
engage questions, not shove them aside. We had a nice leftover 
lunch, then I whaled on my Chorale music (or should I say 
“wailed”?). I did about fourteen pieces, and most of those are ready 
or just have small parts to work on, which is encouraging. Sister 
Deile also came over and Kent and I practiced “In the Bleak 
Midwinter”, which went well. This evening we played “Heads Up” 
and laughed at each other's silly trivia mistakes. It's good to be with 
family. 
In scripture study I read from 3 Nephi where Christ quotes Malachi. I 
was struck by the implied message in 3 Nephi 24:13 that looking at 
the gospel only from a “What do I get out of it?” perspective has 
significant flaws. Self-interest is certainly a powerful motivator for 
obedience, but following God out of love will take us farther in the 
situations where doing the right thing is uncomfortable. I wonder 
how I can cultivate that sense of love in stead of just seeking 
blessings. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 16° MIST AND FOG 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 AT 9:38 PM 

A good day today. I awoke at 7:30 and ran on the elliptical. After 
breakfast, scripture study, and shower, I finished up my CS 
assignment. I then went with Kent and Dad to Plum Market to get 
groceries and we enjoyed a meal at Juicy Kitchen, MAH FAVRITE! In 
the afternoon, we went to see Mockingjay Part 2 of the Hunger 
Games. It was a bit drawn out, as they only had half a book to work 
with, but it did provide good closure. I then finished most of my 
Exon assignment and practiced music for chorale, which I'm making 
progress on. Mom, Dad, and I had dinner at Mezzevino while Kent 
are with Chris, a friend from boychoir. To top the night off, I played a 
bit of Civilization: Beyond Earth. It took me over an hour and a half 
just to get the computer running, but I did manage to crush some 
enemy scum before the night was out. I would like to play something 
more strategically rigorous though… 
In scripture study I read about Christ speaking to His disciples in 
America. I thought that you could replace “church” with “disciple” in 
3 Nephi 27:13 for an interesting personal application about being a r 
al follower of Christ. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 21° MIST AND FOG 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2015 AT 9:24 PM 

A good day today. Pretty relaxed. I worked on my Big Data project 
and made significant progress. I also played a bit of Xenonauts and 
GalCiv 3. Tomorrow, however, I think I'll be busy cooking and 
working and won't play much. I also practiced my music and finally 
got exposed to the last piece. Actually, most things are pretty solid, 
there are really just parts here and there for me to work on. Yay! We 
also had dinner with the missionaries, Elder Song (from Beijing) and 
Elder Harker (who was here when I was here in the summer). Kent, 
Dad, and I, went to lunch at Metzgers and it was meh. 
In scripture study, I learned how testimonies can be transmitted 
generationally, but it must be pretty difficult, as the only recorded 
time in Book of Mormon history that this happens on a mass scale is 
4 Nephi. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 30° MIST AND FOG 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2015 AT 10:08 PM 

A good day today. Did some work on my Big Data project in the 
morning and some progress, but didn't get good granularity at the 
county level (most counties have populations too small to have a 
statistically significant murder rate. Helped cook various things, 
mostly the Bouche. We had a big derp moment when after putting 
on the filling, we realized that we'd used the icing instead! Eeek! 
Madre had just been commenting on how there had been a lack of 
cooking madness when that happened. Luckily we were able to 
scrape most of it off and put in the proper filling. We had to make an 
extra icing batch, but used the leftovers on the Thankful Cookies. I 
also played a bit on the computer, but it was all kind of meh. Dad 
and I went on a walk up in Dexter that reminded me of Minnesota, 
wetlands and moderate forests. 
In scripture study, I read about the sad decay of the Nephite 
civilization from the perspective of Mormon. (Actually, the accounts 
of both personal and family study converged on this subject.) How 
can people fall so far so fast, especially after they began to see the 
negative consequences of their actions? I think one problem is that 
when they began to suffer, they blamed God instead of turning to 
Him. It's like suing your doctor when you get sick. So, seek the cure, 
not the blame. 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 45° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2015 AT 10:48 PM 

Happy Thanksgiving! 

A lovely Thanksgiving today. We cooked, watched the Macy's 
Thanksgiving Day Parade, ate yummy food, cleaned, put up the 
Christmas tree, and played Pit (which Madre creamed us at). I also 
worked on my Big Data project and made major progress. Right 
now, all I need to do is put together the presentation and the write 
up and I should be good. It did require tons and tons of data 
processing, switching spreadsheets and programming though. At 
least I knew how to do most of it. Oh yes, Kent, Mom, and I also 
watched “The Way We Were” during nap time. My thought is that I 
don't really see a point for the movie. What does it say, what does it 
accomplish? 

In scripture study I listened to President Uchtdorf's talk on being 
grateful in all circumstances. I like the idea that we can adopt a 
positive attitude even in difficulties. As the hymns says 
Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take 
The clouds ye so much dread 
Are big with mercy and shall break 
In blessings on your head 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2015 AT 2:56 PM 

A good day today. We decorated the tree and put up some other 
Christmas decorations. I basically finished up my Big Data project 
and added some Steam games to my wish list. We all went out to 
see the Suffragettes movie, which was good, but depressing. Also, 
why did they resort to acts of terror? We also played some Catch 
Phrase and Apples to Apples. Pretty chill. It's hard to believe that I'll 
be going back to Stanford tomorrow. Well, only a week and a half 
until I return for Christmas break. It'll be an intense time with three 
concerts and two finals, though. 
In scripture study I listened more to Mormon's sad account of the 
destruction of his people. I was impressed with how he referenced 
Enos's prayer from 1000 years ago . The Lord does remember 
prayers, even if they were a long time ago, as long as they are 
sincere. 

4916–4966 POLO FIELDS DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 39° CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2015 AT 11:02 PM 

A good day today. Occupied by traveling back to Stanford. It kind of 
feels like I have two homes, one in Michigan and one in Stanford, 
and coming back to each of them feels unnaturally natural. We had 
lovely waffles with cranberry compote for breakfast, a nice bookend 
to the waffles we'd eaten when we arrived, except this time there 
was no snow and green grass. I made purchases for Christmas for 
me on Amazon, Steam, and even American Eagle. Kent, Mom, and I 
played Scattergories. (I won a round, yay!) fe departed for the airport 
at 3:00, flew without incident other than being surrounded by hordes 
of midge, and arrived back at Stanford a little after 9:00 pm PST. I 
did a bit of studying and hopefully will be well prepared for this 
week, concerts, and finals. 
In scripture study I learned about the sadness of the Nephite 
apostasy. The saddest thing is that it was preventable if only they 
had repented. How often do I overlook this obvious solution due to 
pride and rationalizations? 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2015 AT 9:47 AM 

This week was very restful and I'm glad that so had the chance to 
spend time with my family. I think for the most part, I used that time 
wisely, investing it in family activities and doing homework. I was 
pretty productive. Although I did scripture reading, it wasn't the best 
quality, so my goal for next break is to have quality scripture study 
every day (preferably morning), even when we're at Disney. It just 
makes the day go smoother, helps me keep my thoughts and 
language clean, and get along a little better with my family. I really 
didn't play computer games that much since I had homework, but 
next break, I'll have a lot more free time, so I should be sure to 
diversify my activities and not just play on the computer (reading, 
writing to people, spending time with family). I should also make 
sure to have quality prayers. Speaking of which, I'd like to get to 
know my home teachees better and pray for them by name daily. I'll 
print out my list and put it in a place where I can remember it. I can 
look them up on Facebook and whatnot and try to establish some 
contact with them and get solid home teaching done this month, as I 
only am in town a week to do it. I should check in with Emmanuel 
and see how he's doing on his scripture reading and see if the 
missionaries are meeting with him this week. He's another one I 
should pray for regularly. This week is going to be busy, so I should 
focus on the fundamentals and find small ways to serve. I should also 
be aware of getting Christmas gifts for others before it's too late! As 
always, remember the spirit of Christ this Christmas season. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 43° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2015 AT 10:59 PM 

Good sabbath. Nice to see people at church. Cool lesson on why we 
have wards. (So we can make Zion, man!) Studied for Econ and CS 
and wrote in my Evernote. Revised RBA and looked at the feedback 
that Shannon just posted, which was fairly positive. 
In scripture study I read my Patriarchial blessing. I was impressed 
that the Lord has meaning for my life, which is a process of 
discovering and fulfilling that meaning. That thought really elevates 
my day-to-day activities. I was also very impressed by a member 
named Natasha's testimony on gratitude today in church. She talked 
about how she was feeling sad but began writing the things she was 
grateful for (cynically thinking it wouldn't work), but she was 
overwhelmed with a spirit of thanksgiving. I felt a kindred spirit as 
she spoke. Tis good to be alive! 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 41° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015 AT 11:37 PM 

A good day today. Back to work. It's like I never left. Worked on my 
RBA in PWR. Want in Chorale. There are a few parts I need to work 
on that I thought I had down over break but I guess I need to review. 
Second-to-last lecture in 106A. I'll miss Mehran. He discussed life 
after 106A in the lecture: Big Scary CS classes. I studied a bunch for 
the Econ and CS finals. I took the CS practice final. You get three 
hours for the test and I finished it in two, and which is encouraging. 
It seems like my answers were good from looking at the answer key, 
although there were plenty of places where I could be more elegant. 
Like having arrays of booleans. I never use those! Also went to FHE 
and sang some Christmas music. Paige, a law student, shared/sang a 
spiritual thought about Emmanuel. I also coordinated with my 
companion and got asked to set up appointments for home 
teaching for next Monday evening, which is basically the only time I 
have available. 
In scripture study, I read about the Brother of Jared and how his 
prayers helped his whole group of family and friends survive the 
confounding of languages and journey to the promised land. Since 
the prayer of the righteous availeth much, I want to pray for my 
home teachees daily. During this busy Christmas season, I also want 
to make sure that I do the fundamentals to keep my spirit nourished 
and show my devotion to the Lord, even if it's as simple as a prayer. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° CLOUDY 

December 2015 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015 AT 11:50 PM 

A good day today. Learned about sampling bias, statistical 

significance, and baseball in Big Data. Had last institute class of the 
quarter .. Also had EPICALLY LONG ECON because we had a 
regular two hour class followed by an hour and a half Micro review 
session in which we looked at articles and discussed them. After a 
quick dinner, I went to hear the CEO of Wealthfront speak. His talk 
was centered on financial advice, which was sound, but he threw in 
bits and pieces about Wealthfront and ETFs as well. One point was 
that “good investment is boring” because you're not trying to beat 
the market. Worked on PWR essay, added 95% confidence interval 
to big data project, and reviewed Econ. The PSet this week is 
messed up. Well, I made a good effort, so I'll just turn it in tomorrow 
after adding more explanation. I'll need to study more CS tomorrow, 
as I didn't have time to do so today. 
In scripture study, I was very sleepy. However, I did learn about the 
brother of Jared and building barges. One of the themes was 
remembering the Lord in good times (like when I'm on break). Even 
the brother of Jared fell prey to forgetting to pray for a while. (See 
what I did there? I'm so punny.) With that, I think I'll pray myself and 
retire to bed. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° PARTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015 AT 11:48 PM 

Good day. I'm getting progressively more tired, not from sleep 

deprivation, but lots of work. Worked in PWR paper. Studied Econ. 
Last 106A class . Got a good grade on NameSurfer . studied for 
CS final. Had chorale rehearsal. My practice paid off and I felt pretty 
confident on the songs. Tomorrow's Thursday, which means it will be 
busy, and Friday and Saturday are looking packed as well. Just need 
to make the final push… 
In scripture study I didn't fall asleep, yay! I read about the brother of 
Jared and how he saw the Lord. I wonder what was different about 
his faith that He saw Christ while so many others who believed did 
not. One note is that he was quite humble. To me, this indicates that 
the quality of our faith is at least as important as the quantity. So, 
exercising a bit of faith while being humble probably goes at least as 
far as more faith when you're prideful, as Mormon teaches that our 
prayers don't avail much if we don't pray with real intent. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015 AT 12:06 AM 

A good day today. Despite some tiredness, I've decided that I'm 
doing better than most of the student here who have projects and 
essays to finish. I'm just preparing for concerts and finals, which I did 
today. Had last Big Data class and discussed our experience. Had 
voice lesson. My warm-ups felt great but I struggled to apply them 
to my music. Had last Econ class and a lecture of behavioral Econ 
based on Kahneman's System 1 and System 2, Sunstein and Thaler's 
choice architecture and nudge theory, and a myriad of other 
concepts I've hear of before or have read books about. Last 106A 
section, then caught dinner at Arrillaga and went to a three hour 
dress rehearsal for the first Lessons and Carols concert tomorrow. 
In scripture study, I read about the Jaredites' implausibly long 
journey across the seas and subsequent all-too-plausible societal 
collapse into rival kingdoms and civil war. The thing that impressed 
me was that the Jaredites were grateful during the whole journey, 
not just at the end. I could definitely do that more to feel gratitude 
and enjoyment as I do these concerts and finals. It doesn't have to 
be just a slog to the end. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015 AT 11:42 PM 

A good day today. Busy, but what can you expect? It's dead week. 
After my last Econ section in the morning, I rushed off with Kent to 
get soup and wraps from Safeway for Friday Forum, which was a bit 
of “Eternal Pursuit” with Brother Hunt. After that I read my PWR 
essay one last time and tried to submit it but the site wasn't open. 
So, I ran (well, biked then ran up the stairs) to Jennifer Widom's 
office for my Big Data presentation. She seemed to enjoy it and 
even invited Andreas, another CS faculty member who'd sat in on 
the class for a bit, to come in and listen. She had an “Ashes of 
Former Students” jar on her desk and I commented that my Mom 
had one like that, which led to a conversation with about my mom 
being dean. Long story short, Jennifer would like to meet with 
Madre next time she comes! The plot thickens! After the 
presentation, I rushed (notice a trend here?) back to FroSoCo and 
took the practice Econ final. It went well, I did it in just over two 
hours and you're given three (except for two subquestions that were 
misprinted). The answer key isn't out yet, but I feel recently confident 
about my answers. I'm glad I finished early, as it gave me time to 
have dinner at TAP before the Chorale Concert. Lessons and Carols 
#1 went well, and as always with concerts, some pieces felt like my 
best ever, while others were less stellar, but it was solid overall. Two 
more concerts tomorrow! 
In scripture study I read about the Jaredites and their wars, all 
because they sought power. They couldn't be happy unless they 
were king! How often do we feel the same way? “I can't be happy 
unless I… dominate the final or am the top in my class or have the 
best job or have a big house.” I think we actually harm our 
happiness significantly with misplaced expectations. What if we 
instead said, “I can be happy if I'm alive and breathing.” That is 
pretty miraculous after all. Then perhaps we wouldn't be 
bludgeoning each other over who the metaphorical “king” is. 

561–581 LOS ARBOLES AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2015 AT 12:00 AM 

Good day today. Two Chorale Concerts. I'm kind of glad I finished 
that, although it was fun to sing. Three concerts in basically 24 hours 
is a lot, and my voice is tired. Even so, I felt like I personally 
performed my best in the last concert, and I even got parts of 
several pieces that I'd previously struggled with, which was a big 
blessing. Besides the Friends of Music concert at 2:30 and the 
Lessons and Carols #2 concert at 7:30, I had brunch with Kent at 
Stern and 10:30 am and Chorale had a White Elephant gift exchange 
and dinner at 4:30. I brought a Google water bottle with an infuser, 
which I was worried wouldn't be popular but actually got stolen 
three times, which is the max steals limit. I came out with a nice 
mechanical pencil and some Andes mints. The rest of my time was 
consumed by studying. I looked over the answers to the Econ 
Practice final and it looked like I did well, no conceptual problems, 
which is encouraging for the real deal. Tomorrow should be more 
restful, just one song to sing with Kent in church. That and more 
studying before the final finals. 
In scripture study, I learned about the wars of the Jaredites. More 
cheerfully, I also read the First Presidency's Christmas message and 
decided that I should send letters to some missionaries I know and 
my grandparents. It's been a busy season, and singing has been/will 
be one way for me to observe it, but there are lots of other things I 
can do to serve and invite the spirit of Christ into my life. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2015 AT 9:53 AM 

It has been a very busy week. I think I kept my goal of maintaining 
the fundamentals, though. I got enough sleep, and I was attentive 
and focused during scripture study. I actually felt that my prayers this 
week were more animated and sincere, perhaps because I have so 
much to be grateful for. Not that I didn't have much to be grateful 
for in the past, but I expressed my gratitude much more during this 
week. I have been diligent in my studies and in my practice of music, 
and the Lord definitely blessed me to sing my best at the concert. 
Some of the performances were the best I'd ever sung those pieces. 
I now pray that the Lord will similarly consecrate my efforts for good 
effect as I take my finals. I did well on both practice finals, which is 
encouraging. I'm also grateful for the opportunity to sing with Kent 
in church this Sunday. It's interesting how that came about because 
we were already singing in. Ann Arbor because of Sister Theile's 
invitation months ago. A little tender mercy for all involved. This 
upcoming week, I want to maintain those fundamental prayer and 
scripture study habits even as I transition to the more relaxed 
environment of break. As I play games and consume entertainment, I 
also want to be sure to avoid anything pornographic and keep my 
mind clean of could languages or inappropriate sexual thoughts. 
This will involve the fundamentals that I mentioned earlier as well as 
appropriately balancing my time among many activities both alone 
and with family. I've also noted a few ways that I want to serve in my 
“Reminders” list, like writing to missionaries and grandparents. I'm 
looking forward to the break and hope to use that time in such a way 
that I can enjoy it in the moment and not feel like it was wasted. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2015 AT 10:56 PM 

A good Sabbath today. Kent picked me up early so we could Skype 
with Mom and Dad and then go straight to a practice for “In the 
Bleak Midwinter”, which we sang in church today. It went very well, 
and all the other musical pieces from the Christmas program were 
excellent too. Josh Wisenhart, who just got ordained an Elder, 
taught Elder's quorum today and did a good job, discussing 
practical ways for us to bring the spirit of Christ into our actions 
during Christmas. I also watched the First Presidency Christmas 
devotional (although I may have taken a bit of a catnap). I really liked 
President Uchtdorf's talk on gratitude, because I feel that I'm 
experiencing extra satisfaction and contentment from exerting an 
effort to be grateful. After all, there's so much to be thankful for. And 
there always will be. 
I also prepped for finals, marshaling a vast array of CS papers and 
reviewing a little more for Econ (although I'll have a bit of time after 
CS in the morning to do that as well. During that time, I listened to 
the entirety of Handel's “Messiah.” By tomorrow night, I will be 
done with all my finals. Godspeed. 
In scripture study I reviewed insights from last scripture studies, 
which I should do more often. There were a lot where I wanted to 
say “Amen, brother!” Of course, that's somewhat self-congratulatory, 
but I really liked the insights that I'd forgotten. Interestingly enough, 
it seems that my insights have gotten a little more complex, at least 
since the first month I wrote (complex, or lengthier). Here's one I 
really liked: 
One day the idols and worldly possessions that we once prized and 
strove to get will be worthless to us. We'll throw them out to the 
moles and the bats. We'll wonder why we spent so much time and 
energy on them instead of more important, eternal things (2 Nephi 
12:18-19). 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015 AT 12:07 AM 

A good day today. Two finals. They both went well. I knew how to do 
the questions and I think I answered them well, although the there 
were parts here and there that I was iffy on. I'm just glad to be done 
studying endlessly. Went out with Grant to attempt Home Teaching, 
but our person wasn't home, so we just talked while he drove. I also 
played a bit of a game called Thea: The Awakening, which is a fun 
rogue like/village builder. I have a headache though, I I must get to 
bed and prepare to travel tomorrow. 
In scripture study I read Moroni's discourse on faith in Ether 
(strangely appropriate for finals day.) one interesting concept is that 
faith gives us eyes to see and perceive what would otherwise pass us 
by, whether it's gratitude for blessings of the hand of God in our 
trials. It turns bad situations into good ones and makes good ones 
better. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015 AT 10:16 PM 

Good day Tuedsy uneventful travelhome 

Watched a movie called “Home” about a purple alien who invades 
earth then teams up with a human girl. It had a few funny lines, like, 
when the girl asks the alien if they can take parts from the shape ship 
of a different species he replies, “No, they use metric.” When I got 
back, Dad picked me up, then We went with Mom to dinner at 
Noodles. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 28° FREEZING FOG 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015 AT 10:16 PM 

Good day today. Watched “TheMartian” with dad, which I reallyenjoyed, and played, read 

Some 
Of the lectures of faith and learned how it prefaces all actiin 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 28° FREEZING FOG 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2015 AT 10:35 PM 

A good day today. Another relaxed, pretty chill day today. (Perhaps 
too chill for the Moodre as she asked “What did you do today that 
was productive?” And my response was, “I'm on vacation!” I did get 
scalped, I mean, get a haircut. (Finger length is very short when the 
hairdresser has small fingers.) Dad and I watched Guardians of the 
Galaxy, which was meh, only 6.5, nothing like the Martian, which I'd 
give at least an 8. Basically, you get thrown into a plot where there's 
too much going on and too little nuance, but despite this, it's utterly 
predictable: get the MacGuffin, lose the MacGuffin to villains. 
Assemble ragtag band of misfits. Fight villain in epic last battle. Use 
MacGuffin to destroy villain. Yawn I also nearly finished “Bury the 
Chains” on abolition in Great Britain (which I read not a word of first 
quarter). Much more fascinating and nuanced… And inspiring. 
People can do good things, it just takes time and countless setbacks 
along the way! I introduced padre to the Besiege game in which you 
build siege engines to destroy stuff. We discovered that, among 
other things, it is easier to build a multi-stage cannon-powered 
rocket than a catapult. Padre came up with the diabolical 
suggestions of launching circular saws from the catapult, which 
continued to spin and whir in random directions after they landed. 
Now, I wonder if I attached cannons to grenades then I could make a 
sort of missile launcher… Also in the vein of computer games, I 
played a fascinating (if stressful) scenario of invading an alien base in 
Xenonauts. I was methodical and covered one entrance with two 
troops and my tank while I sent my other four soldiers to move 
slowly room by room, clearing enemies as we went. I wanted to keep 
the infrastructure, so I refrained from blowing up the reactor, which I 
found early. Everything was going well until my point man was blown 
to smithereens. Don't you hate it when that happens? I'd reached a 
T-in the hallway and had pulled my troops back to prevent them 
from being exposed. However, I missed seeing a nearby door, which 
subsequently opened to reveal rocket-toting aliens. 'Twas a sad day 
for Shigeru Endo. I did end up clearing the base and getting 
valuable tech, so he didn't die in vain. 
Tomorrow, I'm going to “do something productive” and make 
fudge. Mmm. 
In scripture study, I read about charity. And faith. And hope. Yup, I 
read Moroni 7. One impression was that humility is actually a 
prerequisite for faith and hope because we need to trust in a power 
and a plan greater than our own, even enough to submit our will to 
it. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 48° CLEAR 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2015 AT 10:26 PM 

Good day today. Got up and ran/walked for a while and finished 
reading “Bury the Chains.” On to the third “Wool” book! Played 
some more games. Made chocolate fudge. Ate with Dad at Frita 
Batidos, mmm… Chorizo burger. Kent came home tonight, which 
livened things up. Oh how the days fly by! My google cardboard 
also arrived and I played with it. It actually way exceeded my 
expectations for virtual reality. 
In scripture study I learned about the need to press forward and do 
the Lord's work even in the face of great obstacles. Moroni 9:6. 
Tomorrow I get to do service! 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 46° CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2015 AT 9:06 PM 

Good day today. Participated in a service project helping the Jewish 
Family Services organize their warehouse. Went to Zingerman's for 
lunch. Played computer games (probably too much). Read “Wool” 
where things go from bad to worse. Planned and packed for Disney, 
which we leave for tomorrow! 
Read Moroni 10. Decided that to search the scriptures, I need to 
read them with more purpose. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 57° MIST AND FOG 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2015 AT 4:28 PM 

Lessons from this week: 


Balance my activities to do a little bit of many good things 
Prioritize the comfort and well-being of others over my own. 
Serve 
Stay busy doing good things and thus keep my thoughts 
focused and clean 
keep up the fundamentals: prayer and scripture study 
I'm with my family, enjoy it. 
4401 FLORIDIAN WAY, BAY LAKE, FL, UNITED STATES • 72° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2015 AT 9:07 PM 

A good Sabbath today. Got up freakishly early to go to a practice for 
“In the Bleak Midwinter” before 9:00 church. Our song went well, 
and the program was well-done, although I may have been 
somewhat tired during it all… After church we went home briefly, 
then went in our car to the airport. I caught a much needed nap on 
the flight (which was only two-and-a-half hours) and then we arrived! 
Amid low cloud cover and spotty drizzles, we checked into the 
Grand Floridian, which is just as I remember it! It even smells like 
Disney! We the charged over (packed like sardines in a bus) to 
Hollywood Studios, where we actually walked on to several rides and 
Kent and I took advantage of extra magic hours (thus the midnight 
journal entry). 
In scripture study I learned that to live the gospel, we sometimes 
must accept disruptive change. Sometimes, we even must create it. 

1240 SEVEN SEAS DR, BAY LAKE, FL, UNITED STATES • 72° CLOUDY 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 14, 2015 AT 7:47 PM 

A good day today. Went to Epcot. Rose Soarin' twice. Went on Test 
Track twice and went to Mission: Space, among others. Had lunch at 
the Garden Grill and dinner at Chefs d'France (where Padre got his 
profiteroles). Both meals were quite massive and now I'm full. Played 
Words with Friends with Kentre. Went to the Candlelight 
Processional, which was kind of like a technicolor version of Lessons 
and Carols. 
In scripture study, I was interested by the division between “Fear 
not” and “Fear God.” I guess we should respect the justice and law 
of Heavenly Father without being afraid of Him. 

4401 FLORIDIAN WAY, BAY LAKE, FL, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2015 AT 7:14 PM 

Another good day today. Went to Hollywood Studios in the 
morning, where I continued being the reigning champion of Toy 
Story Midway Mania. We also saw the Little Mermaid, rode Tower of 
Terror, and had delicious brownies. We then hopped over to Epcot 
for a delicious Mediterranean lunch at the Silk Road Table 
Restaurant. It was a better use of our time than greasifying at 
Hollywood Studios, and it gave us a chance to do the “dessert tour 
of the world!” where we got desserts from four different countries. 
After one last ride on Mission: Mars and Soarin' (courtesy of 
fastpasses), we hopped back to Hollywood to have dinner at the 
Brown Derby, see the light show, and go to Fantasmic. We had great 
seats and the show was spectacular, as always! 
In scripture study, I learned that Joseph and Mary were both humble 
and teachable. Joseph accepted the revelation he received that 
Mary's child was legitimate, and they both followed the instructions 
to go to Egypt. So, both are examples of being responsive to the 
Lord's will. 

4401 FLORIDIAN WAY, BAY LAKE, FL, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2015 AT 9:31 PM 

Good day. Went to Universal Studios and Harry Potter. Enjoyed the 
rides and Butterbeer. However, it seems like they have one ride 
model: get on tracks in front of screens. Also went to Magic 
Kingdom, which was crowded even at 10:00. Stayed until midnight. 
Read President Uchtdorf's parable of Great-Aunt Rose and choosing 
to be happy now. Appropriate, as the Madre has seemed to scowled 
her way through these last few theme parks. Clearly she needs more 
sleep. 

4401 FLORIDIAN WAY, BAY LAKE, FL, UNITED STATES • 73° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 17, 2015 AT 9:18 PM 

Good day today. Went to Animal Kingdom, enjoyed Everest. Had a 
nice lunch at Tusker House and saw lots of cool animals on the 
Kilimanjaro Safari. Unfortunately, I woke up with a sore throat that 
progressed to a fever. After we went down to a nap, I medicated and 
we went to Mickey's Very Merry Christmas Party. It's a ticketed event 
with free cookies and hot chocolate and special Christmas Parades. I 
did pretty well once the drugs kicked in, and we made out like 
banshees with three shows and nine rides from 6:00 to 11:30, along 
with a nice dinner of beef stew at Gaston's Tavern. The fireworks 
shows were impressive. Now I am tired. 
In scripture study, I learned about Isaiah's prophecies that we should 
seek God and not cheap substitutes (peeping wizards). However, I 
think I really learned more about Great-Aunt Rose and being happy 
in all circumstances. 

4401 FLORIDIAN WAY, BAY LAKE, FL, UNITED STATES • 73° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2015 AT 8:22 PM 

Good day. Last day at Disney! Slept in a bit then went to Magic 
Kingdom, where we did the rides we'd missed last night. We did 
Pirates of the Caribbean, where we got seated in the front row and 
became totally soaked!!! We got hit by a wall of water, and I wasn't 
wearing a poncho, so I got totally soaked and never really dried out 
for the rest of the day. We did have a lovely lunch at the Be Our 
Guest restaurant where you order via a terminal and the servers 
“magically” find your table. We also “enjoyed” Small World along 
with seeing Mickey's Philharmagic and one last run of Winnie the 
Pooh. We had a nice dinner at Narcoose's at the Grand Floridian, 
where we watched the fireworks for the Christmas party. We them 
packed and prepared for our departure tomorrow. 
In scripture study, I learned that we shouldn't turn away from God in 
the good times. I'm glad that I was able to consistently read my 
scriptures during this trip and plan on continuing over the break. 

4401 FLORIDIAN WAY, BAY LAKE, FL, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2015 AT 8:59 PM 

Good day. Traveled back. Still sick. 

In scripture study, learned about avoiding philosophies that put me 
at ease by removing my responsibility to do good. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 21° CLEAR 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 20, 2015 AT 12:19 PM 

This week, I was diligent at getting in scripture reading, even though 
we had a busy and unusual schedule on vacation. I also prayed, but I 
think the quality decayed. This week, I want to use every prayer as 
an opportunity to thank my Heavenly Father for a different aspect of 
Christ's ministry, to help me focus on Him during Christmas. I worked 
to keep my thoughts clean, but I decided that surfing TV tropes is 
not conducive to that, even though it's not an explicit site. I won't 
use it anymore and will occupy my time in other ways. Speaking of 
which, I need a game plan so I don't just play computer games all 
week. I want to alternate them with reading, family activities, 
cooking, and creative pursuits that I'll enjoy. I'd also like to serve. 
Maybe today I can email some of my old missionary companions. I 
should also strive to treat my family excellently and not grumble, 
complain, or get angry. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 43° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 20, 2015 AT 8:01 PM 

Good Sabbath. Went to church. Had veg-head three-bean chili for 
lunch. Took s nap. Wrapped presents. Wrote Evernote. Wrote Padre 
a Christmas card. Checked my grades and saw I got all A's. Yay! Still 
sick. Wanted to goo to bed earlier, but too much to do. 
In scripture study, I read about Isaiah's prophecies of the Messiah. 
He noted that those that wait upon the Lord renew their strength. I 
think this is because it grants us a perspective with a noble longterm 
goal resilient to short-term setbacks and encourages us to 
access Christ's grace. One example of this is partaking of the 
Sacrament weekly, which continually renews my strength. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 39° CLEAR 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2015 AT 8:45 PM 

Good day. Cold degenerated into a cough. Played a game called 
the Stanley Parable with many endings. Saw “Star Wars: The Force 
Awakens”, which I thought was excellent. It did mix in a lot of motifs 
from the previous movies, but I thought it inverted them nicely while 
keeping the flavor of the original three. 

In scripture study, read about how Christ frees the prisoners. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 50° CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 22, 2015 AT 9:26 PM 

Good day. Was kind of bored in the morning. Read a lot and finished 
“Allegiant”, the third book in Veronica Roth's “Divergent” trilogy, 
which was kind of meh. Read Time magazine. Got the urge from 
watching The Force Awakens and so redownloaded The Old 
Republic, which is now free to play, and played it for a while. 
Wrapped Mom's stocking stuffers. Helped her organize and clear out 
the wrapping mess. Went caroling to Padre's home teachees with 
him and a reluctant Kent. At least I had fun. Read the responses of 
Elders Young and Chapdelaine to my emails. 
In scripture study, I learned that being a disciple of Christ requires a 
certain release of self will, both in the form of humbly not walking by 
the light of of our own fires and giving our backs to the smiters. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 37° CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 23, 2015 AT 10:00 PM 

Good day. Mostly cooked Christmas Eve meal which we enjoyed 
early with the missionaries tonight. Watched MoTab and the 
Muppets. 
In scripture study, learned that my thoughts will determine my life, so 
I should be aware of what I dwell on and be sure to regularly think 
about things that are important and gospel-centers. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 61° CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 24, 2015 AT 9:27 PM 

Christmas Eve. Good day. Watched “The Good Dinosaur” as our 
traditional Christmas Eve movie, which was good, but not 
spectacular. Went to the Smith's for a Christmas Eve dinner and 
Program. 
In scripture study, learned that I should bind up the broken-hearted 
as Christ does in Isaiah 61:1. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 41° CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 25, 2015 AT 9:31 PM 

Merry Christmas! Pretty uneventful Christmas. Opened the stockings 
and presents. Had breakfast, including the deranged jam-filled 
scone that I love (and made). No real surprises in what I got, games 
and books, mostly. I'm already done with half the books and bored 
with half the games. I'm efficient that way. We also called Grammie 
and Grandpa Davis and got Gramminated, and called Aunt Donna. 
We played a game called wits and wagers where you try to guess 
obscure numbers. 
In scripture study, I learned that justice, in the sense of Joseph being 
a just man, connotes a sense of perspective and mercy as well. “Oh 
forgive that thou wouldst be, e'en forgiven now by me.” 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 30° CLEAR 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 26, 2015 AT 9:42 PM 

Good day. Watched Joy. 

In scripture study learned that Herod asked after the prophecies of 
the Messiah as a practicality. Not a believer. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 43° LIGHT RAIN 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 27, 2015 AT 5:18 AM 

This week was restful with lots of reading, cooking, eating, watching 
movies and playing computer games. However, I do feel a little 
restless, knowing I only have one week of break left and wondering 
what I'll do with it to make it both enjoyable and memorable. I don't 
want to just play computer games all week and then feel bleh at the 
end. Two ideas: I will exercise and I will take time for significant 
scripture study. That will help put me in a positive frame of mind and 
keep my thoughts clean, as I had a few temptations this week. 
Perhaps I could embark on a creative project like writing s short 
story. 
I am a little nervous about the new quarter and new classes, 
although I shouldn't be. I've gotten to be familiar with Stanford and 
some people there, and I'll be taking interesting classes. In fact, I 
should have a little more time now that I'm not taking 19 units. Next 
week, I can set some goals for the new quarter. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 37° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 27, 2015 AT 5:35 PM 

Good Sabbath. Was kind of tired in church and had a weird gospel 
doctrine lesson where the teacher just kind of rambled. However, we 
did have a good lesson on setting goals in priesthood that inspired 
me to think about my goals and priorities. I'm a little stressed over 
this next quarter although I really have no reason to be. I have a 
good base of activities, classes, and friends, that I can work to 
expand and optimize. I just want to refocus my priorities on building 
relationships a little more, but I don't know how to start. After 
church, we had a lovely lunch of pasta Bolognese with garlic bread, I 
took an involuntary nap, and later Kent and I made this kind of weird 
chocolate pudding/cake thing where you pour boiling water over it 
to make chocolate sauce, then bake it. We then played “Kill the 
Padre”, I mean UNO attack, which was fun. I did scripture study and 
set goals and reflected on this past quarter. I don't want the break to 
end, but I know I'm over stressing it. I'll be fine. 
Besides the aforementioned goals, in scripture study I thought about 
“nets” that I may need to leave to more fully follow the Savior, 
including computer games and even schoolwork. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 34° CLOUDY 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 28, 2015 AT 9:40 PM 

Good Monday. Played Star Wars the Old Republic and other games. 
Lounged around the house. Read “Sand”, another book by Hugh 
Howey, author of Wool. Played UNO attack with the family. 
In scripture study, learned that we should give away our favorite sins, 
the ones that are our guilty pleasures (Matthew 5:30). 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 36° MIST AND FOG 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 29, 2015 AT 9:43 PM 

Good Tuesday. Played some more. Read some more. Most relaxing. 
Except for the family game a Wheedle, which was quite high energy 
(in which I triumphed!). 
In scripture study, learned that Heavenly Father knows not just what I 
do, but why, so good intentions are as important as good deeds. 
Important to keep in mind while serving in a calling. Or serving in 
general (no grumbling!) well, I may have grumbled a little helping 
the Madre wrap presents, so I should work on that. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 34° CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 30, 2015 AT 9:33 PM 

Good day. Finished Ori and the blind forest. Don't think I died so 
many times (deaths per hour) in any other game. I think I died fifty 
times in the final sequence alone. Limbo would perhaps be a second 
in terms of frequency of death, but not a close one. For dinner, we 
had a “return to the fifties” with Kraft Mac n Cheese, Sister 
Schubert's rolls, canned green beans, and shakes. It was deliciously 
artificial. We also played a cutthroat game of Settlers of Catan where 
we tools to extorting cards from others with the thief and Kentre 
sacrificed his cards to let Madre win. 
In scripture study, I learned that it's not lineage or background that 
determine faith. Even the centurion who knew little of Jewish 
tradition could have faith in Christ. It's a personal choice. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 30° CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2015 AT 10:54 PM 

Happy new year! Nice traditional New Year's Eve with fondue 
(cheese and chocolate), a rousing game of settlers of Catan (I won, 
yay!), a much less rousing game of sorry, and Of course, Anderson 
and Cathy, awkward as ever. 
In scripture study, I learned that pride leads to missing out on 
miracles. 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 28° CLOUDY 

January 2016 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 1, 2016 AT 10:15 PM 

Good day. Hard to believe it's 2016. Hard to believe that a year ago, 
I was in Pascagoula, Mississippi. Crazy. Pretty chill day. Got a new 
book called “The Informant” on the true story of the FBI 
investigating price fixing at Archer Daniels Midland. It's fascinating. 
Finished a video game Calle “Brothers”. You control two brothers 
simultaneously as they go on a journey to save their father. It starts 
out fairly lightheartedly but becomes darker and darker as the game 
progresses, including a field of dead, bloody Giants and a girl who 
turns into a spider mortally wounding the older brother. Despite 
getting the magic elixir of life, he dies before you can give it to him. 
And by die I mean dead, no resurrection. You dig a grave for him, 
slowly drag him to it, and bury him. It's pretty harsh, but at least it 
treats death like it means something, unlike so many games. The 
younger brother returns successfully, only able to swim across a ford 
when you press the older brother's key, which was a cool stroke. The 
father is saved, but the game ends with him bawling at the grave of 
his eldest son (in parallel to the beginning of the game, where the 
youngest son is crying at the grave of his mother in the end, the two 
graves are side by side, the youngest brother looking on silently. I 
guess it's a story about growing up, and how in real life, there aren't 
always happy endings, and people are not always as they seem. 
Kind of a downer. 
In scripture study, I learned that I should seek the Holy Ghost to 
guide my words when I share the gospel with my friends. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 27° CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, JANUARY 2, 2016 AT 9:32 PM 

Good day today. Went with the family to see “Spotlight”, a movie 
on the Boston Globe's investigative journalism revealing the 
systematic molestation of children in Boston by Catholic priests, 
along with the Cardinal's complicity in allowing the perpetrators to 
continue. It was riveting, a very well-done movie about getting to 
the truth in the face of steep odds, as well as our collective capacity 
to rationalize and cover up. Evidence had even been presented to 
the Globe previously and been ignored. It was rated R, but really not 
that explicit, I think the rating was really just for the topic. After the 
movie, we went out to lunch at Real Seafood, which was good. This 
evening, I packed some more and transferred relevant save games 
from the downstairs computer to a USB. Not that I plan on playing 
computer games much this quarter. I only played for two hours the 
whole last quarter, excepting vacation time. I also saw no movies 
(except for one for a class), and read no books. I was super busy. I 
read the news and occasionally Time Magazine, and I listened to 
Churchill while I ran, and listened to music while I worked, but there 
really wasn't much in the way of recreation. I still enjoyed it, though. 
Anyway, I also got to a part in Infinifactory where I get rescued by 
the resistance, which is cool. I'd kind of been hoping to rescue 
myself, but oh well. As a family, we played Scattergories, our last 
family game in a proud string this break. I'm a little apprehensive 
about going back to Stanford, especially since I'm unsure about 
which classes I'll be taking because my chosen three all have finals 
on the same day (Monday! Minimum study time!). So, I'm looking 
into options to resolve that, but it means that my schedule's still a bit 
up in the air. I'm sure it will all work out. I also am a bit concerned 
about finding something to do over the summer, whether it be an 
internship or research or what. I could theoretically go back to 
Arland if all else fell through, but I don't even know if my family will 
be in Michigan then. Jeff Swindle had a lead about working with 
someone in D.C., although the it may not exactly be up my 
educational alley. I'll have to keep it in mind. 
Anyway, in scripture study, I learned that Christ's yoke is light, so if I 
yoke myself to Him with service and gospel living, I'll be able to deal 
with whatever worries I have. It won't all be effortless, but I'll be 
strengthened. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 30° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 3, 2016 AT 5:36 AM 

An enjoyable last week of break. I didn't accomplish a lot, but I had 
fun and spent time with family. In the future, when I have breaks this 
long, I'd like to adopt a project to keep me busy and give me 
something productive to do. I'm a little nervous about going back to 
school, especially since my course schedule is a bit up in the air right 
now with the three finals on one day thing. However, as I've 
brainstormed solutions, looked into plans, and sought help from 
Heavenly Father, I've felt a little more comfortable about things. 
Something else I want to work on is that last week, I felt that 
sometimes inappropriate thoughts were on the fringes of my mind. I 
don't want them to even be on the fringes. That's one thing that I 
want to use the enabling power of the Atonement to improve. I think 
being engrossed in schoolwork will help with that too. Of course, I'll 
get right to work this week, and I'll follow Dad's advice of working 
really hard the first three weeks, to establish a good first impression 
with my teachers and good study habits. Since everyone's just 
hashing out their schedules, now would be a good time to figure out 
if I can set up a regular lunch with some of my friends, as I don't 
want exclusively working lunches. I'm proud of the way that I was 
able to keep up regular (and meaningful) scripture study and 
exercise in the first quarter and I'd like to continue that habit in the 
second quarter. I'd like to review my first quarter reflection and 
winter quarter goals regularly. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 32° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 3, 2016 AT 4:12 PM 

A good Sabbath today. Aww, I'm sad that break is over and I won't 
see Mom and Dad again for a while. But, it is time for me to get 
back to productive labor instead of just playing games, reading, and 
watching movies. Next time I have a break this long, I'd like to do 
some cool project over it, design a game or write a short story or 
something. Anyway, I don't regret it, I'm just sad it's over. The Bishop 
had a good testimony on the power of good routines, saying that he 
felt kind of crummy going back to work but soon enough was 
excited to work on projects he was passionate about. That gave me 
hope that I'll get back into the swing of things soon. In fact, 
accepting that life moves on was a bit of a theme of sacrament 
meeting, as we sang “Come Let Us Anew.” I remember thinking 
about how “our life as a dream, our time as a stream glides swiftly 
away and the fugitive moment refuses to stay, for the arrow has 
flown and the moment is gone” on my mission, and Elder Keller 
(who just sent me a friend request on Facebook, by the way) saying 
that his mission felt like a dream. Back then, it felt like my mission 
was so long and I had so much time ahead of me, and now my 
mission is over along with my first quarter at Stanford. Flown, the 
arrow has. I guess you've just got to enjoy the ride and learn as 
much as you can as you go. That, and realize that good things keep 
on coming, so no need to live in the past. 
In scripture study, I read Jörg Klibingat's talk about approaching the 
throne of God with confidence. Combined with an excellent 
priesthood lesson on the enabling power of the Atonement, it gave 
me some ideas. For example I'd like to take a broader view of my 
calling by contributing more to institute, inviting people like Victor to 
come and participate. I'd like to use that enabling power of the 
Atonement more in my life. The question, “What did I use the 
Atonement for today?” is a revealing one. 

TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016 AT 12:01 AM 

Busy day. A tad overwhelming. Started off with my typical routine of 
laundry, scripture study, breakfast, then headed off to Math 51 at 

9:30 am. The lecturer seemed reasonable enough, and the intro 
material he presented in class was understandable. However, the 
book seemed kind of abstruse when I started reading it. I'll probably 
be taking advantage of office hours and study groups to maximize 
my understanding. After taking care of some business items, I had an 
early lunch at Arrillaga and headed to 106B, where I found that 
Angela and Brig from church along with Jeremy from chorale are all 
taking the same class. We all sat together and the professor seemed 
engaging, even though it's his first time teaching the class. He's a 
protege of Mehran Sahami, which is a plus in my book. In chorale, 
we got all new music, which is freakishly hard, as usual. I'll have to 
pull up midis and other choral performances to listen to as I work. At 
least we only have one concert this quarter, so I should have enough 
time to get ready. Finally, I went to Psych, where the lecturer was 
really engaging, although it feels a bit like it'll be a rehash of what I 
took in high school. Nevertheless, it'll be fun and hopefully balance 
out the other two rigorous classes I have. All of today, however, was 
marred by the pall of not knowing about my final exam situation. I'd 
scheduled a meeting with Arik, my AAD, only to receive an email 
saying “Looks like you missed your meeting.” Apparently it auto-
scheduled in Eastern rather than Pacific time! Eeek! Thankfully, he 
was gracious enough to squeeze in a few minutes with me before he 
left. We discussed alternative classes, but he suggested that first I 
email my professors to ask about the possibility of an alternate final. 
It seemed like a long shot, and I almost didn't do it, but I'm really 
glad I did, as my psych professor replied and said that I could take 
the final later, maybe Tuesday morning. I think this is better enough 
to justify keeping my classes. I'll still shop one or two classes 
tomorrow though, just in case. After that craziness, I went to family 
home evening, and Chloe shared an appropriate message on “look 
not behind you” as the future can be better than the past, but we 
won't make it that way by moping in our memories. I hope that I'm 
able to do well in my new classes, although I feel a bit pressured 
already on day 1. It'll work out. 
In scripture study, I read about the need to fill our minds and lives 
with good, lest they be like a swept house waiting for the sins we've 
cast out to return (Matthew 12). That's what I' working on doing right 
now. 
222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016 AT 11:40 PM 

Good day today. I shopped a class on “Feeding Nine Billion”, which 
seemed interesting, but I'm probably going to stick with my original 
schedule. Went to math section, which was at least intelligible. 
Actually, later in the day I switched my section to 10:30 from 11:30 
because a slot opened up, and the earlier time means I can make it 
to institute on time. Unfortunately, the slot opened up literally right 
after I submitted my time preference for psych sections. So, now I'll 
have to send an email retracting that and changing it to the correct 
preferences, since my two top times are now taken by 51 section. 
Well, I suppose it's a better arrangement overall. Just more 
paperwork. I feel bad for asking for so many alternate exam times, 
but literally every single midterm in Psych and Math 51 conflicts with 
chorale rehearsal. But in any case, I digress. After section, I went to 
institute (late since the section ended at 12:20). I grabbed lunch and 
went to see if I could shop and Intro Sem that showed space online, 
but when Ingot there the professor said it was full with a wait list. Oh 
well. I then went back and did homework. Between Psych and CS 
readings, I read almost 100 pages today. We're I to continue at this 
rate, it would only take me 2-3 weeks to read the textbooks. But, I'd 
rather not, as I wouldn't get much out of them, or have time to do 
any homework… I'm grateful that my schedule is at least coming 
together, despite the much pleading and coordination involved. 
In scripture study, I followed an invitation by Elder Young to read 
Chapter 8 on goal setting in Preach My Gospel. Besides activating 
mission PTSD, it led me to read in Jacob 5, where the fruit can be 
compared to the learning I hope to achieve in school. It requires 
diligence, patience, and a partnership with the Lord to bring forth 
“good learning.” 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° PARTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016 AT 12:00 AM 

Good day. Had second day of my regular classes. Math 51 lecture 
was good at clarifying the concepts from the readings. 106B was a 
quick overview of C++, which has a lot of similarities to Java, with 
the exception that strings are mutable and there are two types of 
them. I met Brother Rasmussen, the new institute teacher (for one of 
two classes). He seems very by-the-book. His style is very different 
from brother Hunt. I guess I can learn from his perspective. However, 
I'm not sure his teaching style is optimal for me… In Psych 1, we 
reviewed the scientific method. Correlation is not causation! I then 
worked on Math readings. I went to SAY in the evening, where we 
started reading submissions. Some were surprisingly good. Others 
were… lacking. After hall meeting, I did my Psych reading. In theory, 
that means I have less to do tomorrow. Sadly, many a beautiful 
theory is slain by ugly facts. For example, I'm going to a Psych 
experiment tomorrow on movie preferences, which should be 
interesting. 
In scripture study, I read the first presidency message on finding 
happiness for ourselves and those we love through obedience. It led 
me to dig up one of my old mission emails on the “recipe for 
happiness.” My biggest insight was that happiness if a spiritual gift, 
which we receive from God, just like any other spiritual gift, and have 
a responsibility to cultivate and use wisely, just like any other spiritual 
gift. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016 AT 12:09 AM 

Good day today. Not too busy. I went to a different Math 51 section, 
but after the TA spoke rapidly in a heavy accent and cold-called a 
bunch of students, I felt like it wasn't for me and switched back to 
my original section. I went to institute, where we had a good 
discussion on the Old Testament. Bro. Hunt's teaching style is so 
much different than Brother Rasmussen's. After that, I did a bunch of 
homework (mostly reading for CS, and I started the Math 51 PSet, 
which doesn't seem too bad. Some of the problems require a fair 
amount of thinking, but I've felt good about my answers so far 
(knock on wood). It did make me miss my dad's math-checking 
services though. I also met with Angela over dinner to discuss Friday 
Forum. It'll be a bit tricky to get food since we're both in 106B until 
12:20, so someone will have to skip out or something. After that, I 
rushed off to chorale practice. The pieces we ran through this time 
seemed manageable, including the obligatory spiritual (where “sit” 
is pronounced “set”). 
In scripture study, I was interested by Deuteronomy 8:3, which 
suggests that God led the Israelites into the wilderness specifically 
to allow them to experience privation so that 

(1) they could be humbled and aware of their own weakness and 
vulnerability 
(2) they would turn to God and learn to live by every word from His 
mouth. 
In other words, God can lead us into uncomfortable situations 
precisely because we need them to build our faith, or increase our 
humility, or be grateful for something as simple as a loaf of bread. 
Sometimes our “wilderness” is simply our optimal trial zone. 
222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016 AT 11:10 PM 

Good day today. Went to psych experiment in the morning, where I 
got less than 50% trying to guess a person's preferences between 
movie pairs. #fail dayone1://tags?name=fail . Went to Math 51, which 
was good, sent out an email for Friday Forum with an Olaf pic. Talks 
about vectors, grids, and velociraptors in 106B (the dinos being a 
cooler modernization of the safe spaces from queens on a 
chessboard problem). Had a chill Friday Forum with Greek food. 
Talked about sex in psychology. Namely, how evolutionary 
psychology accounts for differences between men and women's 
sexual preferences. My concern with evo psych is that it's kind of 
post hoc. You don't really observe an evolutionary phenomenon and 
then use it to predict human behavior, but typically observe human 
behavior and attribute it to evolutionary phenomena. In that sense, 
it's predictive value is limited. Anyway, after that, I worked on Life in 
C++ and got the interface and file reading working. I just need to do 
the algorithms to implement counting a cell's neighbors and 
applying the rules. I had dinner with Connor at Stern and we talked 
about life (little “L”) and I did some Math 51 readings. I also got 
Kent “Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them” for his Birthday, 
although it's currently out of stock, so he may not get it for a while. 
So that's my day. Talked about sex, created Life. Did math. 
In scripture study, I learned about seeing God's hand in my life by 
regularly remembering the “fruits” of His blessings. I have my own 
personal partings of the Red Sea and manna in the wilderness, so 
best not forget them! 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 10, 2016 AT 12:28 AM 

Good day. Got up early (6:00 am) to go to the temple. Some 
Saturday. The trip was nice and we went out to a burger place 
afterwards. Classic. I read Psych in the car. After getting back, I 
worked on CS, and finished Life. I was very surprised when the 
animation function worked on the first try. That never happens. Also 
did Math 51, chugged along on the homework. 
In the temple, I pondered priorities and wrote down some principles 
in scripture study. I learned in Deuteronomy 28 that the promised 
blessing for obedience are as big as the pitfalls of sin. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 10, 2016 AT 9:46 AM 

I was a little bummed at the beginning of this week that break was 
over, but now that I'm back into the swing of things, I feel fine. I've 
set good habits for exercise fishing and studying scriptures in the 
morning. I also am glad that I went to the temple on Saturday, as I 
probably won't be able to go for a while, as it is closed and only 
reopens near midterm apocalypse. I relied on Heavenly Father a lot 
to guide me as I picked my classes and times. I'm disappointed that 
my section time means I always get to institute a bit late, but that 
was the section that felt right for me and I asked for confirmation 
that it was a good decision. I'm thankful for Kent's willingness to 
help and provide advice and should thank him for it. I did follow up 
with Emmanuel about meeting with the missionaries, but I should do 
so again. It was cool that Robert asked me about church, I should 
follow up with a direct invitation next week. One concern I have is 
that I'll just be working all the time this quarter, which probably isn't 
healthy for the whole “forming lasting relationships and memories” 
part of me. I purposely chose to take fewer classes this quarter to 
give me more time, but the workload seems like just as much. I don't 
know exactly what I should do to deal with that, as I'm committed to 
doing my best in my classes, but what about doing my best in other 
areas of my life? As far as dating, if it's a scheduled activity, it will 
happen. If it's not a scheduled activity, it won't happen. So schedule 
it. I'm grateful that Heavenly Father allowed my finals schedule to be 
changed with alleviates a lot of stress. However, an feel that my 
classes are fairly challenging and want to be as prepared as possible 
for the finals, especially Math 51. I should start taking a look at the 
types of questions they ask now. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 10, 2016 AT 11:41 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Had brunch with Kent in the morning. Worked 
on Math 51 and actually finished all the homework except for one 
problem. I don't mind doing math as much as I used to. I can kind of 
get in the groove of working on the problems. I'm just worried that I 
may not be fast enough for the exams. And how will I remember all 
those theorems? I'm going to start reviewing previous exams this 
week to see if I can get a handle on the questions. Kind of like the 
Blue Packet of Death from Calc. It was huge, but once you got 
through those 60 questions, you were really prepared for the AP 
test. Church was good, although I was sleepy in sacrament for some 
reason. Maybe because I woke up early on Saturday. They split 
Elders Quorums so now there are two, but all Stanford students are 
grouped in one. Had dinner with some people from the LDSSA, 
which always seems to devolve into swapping mission stories. About 
role plays: “We baptized the wall so many times.” Also wrote in due 
dates and exams in Any.Do, so hopefully I don't forget anything. 
Polished “Life”. 
In scripture study, I learned that Moses was sustained and his body 
renewed in his priesthood service, as per the oath and covenant. 
However, the more interesting insight for me in Sunday School was 
reflecting on how God commanded Nephi and his brothers to get 
the brass plates, so they went to fulfill the Lord's commandments, 
and they failed. Then they tried again, and failed. I guess it never 
sank in before that the Lord can command us to do things that we 
will fail at repeatedly before succeeding. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016 AT 12:04 AM 

Good day today. Lots of classes. On Mondays, I have a block of time 
from 11:30 to 2:50 in which I go to three classes back to back. I 
finished up the Math 51 homework, although I should check it. I also 
did the Psych reading, which tends to be 40+ pages. It was 
interesting to see analogies in human perception and how 
computers are set up though. For example, the cones in our eyes 
have 3 photopigments that detect red, green, and blue wavelengths, 
and the resulting pattern of neurons firing for those colors yields our 
color perception, just like the RGB scheme in computers. The book 
also discussed how we have neurons tuned to specific visual features 
(“feature detectors”), such as lines, corners, and specific angles. This 
is exactly how computer-driven neural networks work. Anyway, I also 
went to Habla, which was fun. Had chamber Chorale. I need to 
practice my music more. But right now I need to sleep. I should also 
make a list of summer opportunities. 
In scripture study, I read some things about Christ being Jehovah 
and as part of the foundations reading, read a part of Richard G. 
Scott's talk “Jesus Christ, Our Redeemer.” He talked about priorities, 
which I've been thinking about for a while now. If all I do at Stanford 
is work, to the exclusion of everything else, is that really a good use 
of my time or proper alignment of priorities? If working all the time 
isn't appropriate, then how much work is? 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016 AT 12:00 AM 

Good day today. Went to my first psych section. My teaching fellow 
is trained in cognitive psych with a heavy emphasis on computer 
science, so he's perfect for me! I should definitely try to connect 
more with him later. Today was a Psych-heavy day, with section in the 
morning, and then a lecture, if you could call it that, by Al Bandura 
(famous for his “hobo doll” experiment on learned aggression where 
children beat up on a hobo doll after watching adults on video do 
the same.) It was billed as a discussion on Moral Disengagement, or 
how people do evil and rationalize it, the topic of his new book. 
Admittedly, there was some discussion of moral disengagement, but 
I myself became rather disengaged after hearing him discuss 
random stories about growing up I. Canada for 20 minutes. So, the 
presentation left me wanting. Finally, I went to a short, small 
presentation (only four people attended) for Psych 1 students on 
some of the problems with Psych research, such as false positives, p-
hacking, and the replication crisis (many Psych studies can't be 
replicated). The issue is basically that you have a normal distribution 
of possible correlations around the “actual” correlation, and this 
distribution is quite wide for small sample sizes and low correlations. 
Thus, when you achieve a correlation in the study, you don't know 
whether is falls above, below, or on the mean correlation. The 
obvious solution is to have larger sample sizes and repeat studies, 
but that's boring and expensive. I wonder how we can incentivize 
replication…Anyway, after that I went to the church to home teach 
Alex with Grant. We went out on a park bench (Who knows why? 
Maybe he wanted privacy.) which reminded me of my lessons with 
Gerald in Pascagoula. Good guy. Anyway, I also went to Math 51 
section and office hours and fought to scan in my homework (you 
have to flag which page every problem is on after you scan it in…) 
We had a good discussion in institute about the meaning in Moses 
not living to reach the promised land. I also freaked about what I'm 
going to do this summer, since Kent was at the Bandura thing (he 
was the impetus for my attendance) and asked me if I'm going to the 
career fair… but I don't even have a resume! The good thing is that I 
do have plenty of options, so there are lots of possible good 
outcomes. I also extended my Life program to 106B to work with a 
pre existing graphics program and have the ability to randomly 
generate initial worlds. Both modifications went surprisingly 
smoothly. It's interesting that seven months ago, I knew basically 
nothing about programming, and now I've written in five languages 
(JavaScript, Visual Basic, Java, Python, and C++). Fun stuff. 
In scripture study, I was interested by Elder Scott's phrase, “don't 
renounce what you yearn for most for something you think you want 
now.” In institute we discussed tithes, and I felt that, in my recent 
evaluations of potential majors and jobs, I've overvalued the role of 
money, and need to broaden my vision to recognize what I “most 
yearn for” in employment. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° PARTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016 AT 12:34 AM 

Something of a hectic day today. Had Math in the morning, which 
was fine, but afterwards, my key was really sticky in my bike lock. I'd 
had a some of this problem yesterday but hadn't been able to 
lubricate the lock yet. After thirty minutes of wrestling, I finally got 
the lock open and went straight to the bike shop, where I got my 
lock lubed and things worked like a charm. By the way, my other 
combo is 1642, in case I ever need it. I had a quick lunch, learned 
about sets and maps in 106B, and debated whether God's 
omniscience means He's not still learning in institute. (Personally, I'm 
on the side that you can be omniscient and learning simultaneously. 
Went to Psych, which Connor Brinton switched into, and which is 
fun, so we and my FroSoCo buddies learned together about brain 
areas and Broca's (speech production, no fluent aphasia) and 
Wenicke's (speech understanding, fluent aphasia) areas. After that, I 
popped down to Arriliaga for an undeclared Frosh/Soph info session 
on summer internships/opportunities. They had good info and gave 
me good introductory tools to write a resume. Kent had convinced 
me to attend the startup career fair tomorrow, so I need s resume, 
which I worked on today. In fact, I feel I've been freaking out over 
finding summer opportunities more than anything else. I don't 
expect much from tomorrow's career fair, but it will be an 
opportunity for me to learn more about talking with recruiters and at 
least put my resume out there… Sigh. Oh yes, I almost forgot, I went 
to SAY, then Habla, so it was a really packed day today. 
In scripture study, I thought about meditating (so meta). When I 
meditate on something (as an currently am with summer internship 
opportunities), I think on it deeply and frequently; in the shower, 
before bed, etc. I should do that more with the scriptures, making 
them part of my continuous experience rather than discrete events in 
my day. 

561–581 LOS ARBOLES AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° PARTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016 AT 11:45 PM 

A good day today. It feels like tomorrow should be Saturday, not 
Friday. I guess it's been one of those weeks… 
I spent this morning prepping my resume based on feedback from 
Kentre and Madre. I then rushed off to Math section. Afterwards, I 
sprinted to Institute, then raced back to FroSoCo, where I printed my 
resume after if got final approval. I then went to the career fair. It was 
good, I guess. I talked to five recruiters, who were nice, although the 
interest wasn't super high, since I'm a freshman. At least I learned a 
little about how to interact with recruiters and dropped my resume a 
few places. Ironically, the company I talked to that was the best fit for 
me was Juntos. They're looking for a summer intern in data analysis, 
which is my strong suit from my resume. They work in R, though, 
which I haven't used before. I'd squeezed the career fair in right 
before my CS106B section, which was pretty introductory. We have a 
good group though. In all of this madness, I actually hadn't had any 
time for lunch, so I when I got back to FroSoCo around 4:00, I ate 
some trail mix. I worked for a while, then biked over to ZAP, where 
Kent and I Skyped with Mom and Dad to celebrate Kent's birthday 
as he opened his presents. I also had dinner with him and we 
enjoyed some cake that Mooples (collective name for Madre and 
padre) sent him. I then rushed off to Chambers, where We read 
through Barber's Adagio for Strings, which is the one song in our set 
I've actually listened to. I like it, although it's uber low for bass 2. We 
also read another piece by Ola Gjeilo, which was good. I finished up 
the night with some Math 51 homework. So busy. Tired. 
In scripture study, I learned that sometimes you have to walk halfway 
into the river before it parts. I felt a little that way going to the career 
fair and not knowing what it would be like. Bro. Hunt also challenged 
us to meditate for 10 minutes on a subject. I'll try it tomorrow. I give 
a 50% chance that I fall asleep. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016 AT 11:49 PM 

Good day today. Busy, as always. I had Math 51 lecture in the 
morning, then went with Andrew Lee to pick up food for Friday 
forum at Safeway. I was planning on dropping it off and going to 
106B (which starts at 11:30), but by the time I got to Old Union, it 
was already almost noon, so I just missed class and prepped the 
food. Peter Bryan spoke about his mission, and it was cool to hear 
about the experience of another stateside Spanish-speaking 
missionary. The kinds of people and situations he described 
definitely resonated with my experiences. After FF, I went to Psych, 
where we talked about perceptions and the high level of post-
processing we do on them to convert neuron firing patterns into 
coherent sensory data. Our brains do a good job at hiding what we 
don't sense, like the blind spot in our eyes (caused by the exit of the 
optic nerve out the back) or the fact that we can't see in good color 
or high fidelity unless we're focused directly on on object (since 
almost all of our cones (HD color receptors) are located on the fovea 
(center of the eye)). After psych I went to a psych experiment where I 
filled out surveys on my opinions about inherent vs learned 
intelligence, growth/fixed mindset, level of self-control, and 
situational vs fundamental attribution. Then I had to do a timed word 
association task in three rounds. The first round was basically 
impossible (some of them had no solutions), the second round was 
moderately hard, then the third round was easiest. I then filled out 
more surveys on the same mindset, level of self-control stuff. It was 
somewhat disconcerting to be barraged with these questions I 
couldn't answer in the word association task, but I kind of deduced 
that it was meant to be hard to challenge feelings of total self-
control. I suppose that facing a failure in real life can push you 
toward a fixed mindset as well, if you let it. Anyway, this evening I 
watched “The Princess Bride” with the some LDS students, after 
some coaxing and invitations from several sources, I decided I could 
spare the time. “The Princess Bride” is my favorite movie of all time, 
and I haven't seen it since before my mission. It was on my list of 
movies to watch over the summer, the. I decided that it could be a 
great my first quarter, then I didn't have time. So, I've already 
increased the amount of movies I've watched infinitely over the last 
quarter (not counting break time). It was as great as ever. So 
quotable. “Hello, my name is Indigo Montoya. You killed my father. 
Prepare to die.” 
On that note, in scripture study, I learned that I can have “witness 
stones” in my life, just as Joshua set one up as a witness of Israel's 
covenant with God, because the stone had witnessed all of God's 
doings with them and their promises to Him. Similar figures in my life 
are my mission name tag (which I got out so I can put it where I can 
see it), my journal, my Patriarchial blessing (which I want to re-read 
soon), and temple attendance where we are reminded of our 
covenants in proxy ordinances. If my behavior consistent with the 
promises that these “witness stones” have watched over? 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° LIGHT RAIN 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 17, 2016 AT 12:38 AM 

A good day today. I woke up at 11:00, which is super late for me, 
especially considering I went to bed last night around midnight. 
Saturday is the only day I wake up without an alarm, so I guess I was 
more sleep deprived than I realized. I had brunch at Lakeside, which 
was surprisingly good, and had our weekly family call with Kent, 
Mom, and Dad. I then worked on homework, almost finishing my 
Math 51 Pset, doing a chapter of Math 51 reading, doing the Psych 
reading, going over Assignment 2 for CS (which I remember Kent 
emailing me about when I was on my mission), processing business 
items, and looking at internship possibilities. There's some 
specifically for Frosh/Soph at Facebook, Microsoft, and Twitter, 
although I imagine they're mobbed with applicants and are probably 
looking for “diverse” people. I'll see about applying for at least the 
Microsoft one. I'd have to look into other stuff and consult with the 
Kentre before pushing the button though. For fun, I read a brief NYT 
article about the drop in oil prices, which lead me to read the short 
story of “The Monkey's Hand”, which was used as an analogy for the 
apparently beneficial but actually unpredictable oil glut. Yes, that 
should all be hyphenated, but I'm too tired to do that. I also 
practiced some chorale music. Now sleep. 
In scripture study, I took up Bro. Hunt's challenge on meditation, and 
I actually stayed focused for 10 minutes. (Once I got to 12-15, 
though, my mind began to wander). I pondered charity, and had the 
thought that John 15:13-14, can be read as Christ saying to us, “Ye 
are my friends. You can show me no greater love than laying down 
your life for me.” This makes the scripture actionable for us instead 
of merely deserving how Christ lays down His life for us. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 17, 2016 AT 10:21 AM 

Whew, this was a busy week. A bit hectic. It's hard to believe that 
I've already been at Stanford for two weeks. How the time flies. I was 
able to serve this week by doing some home teaching with Grant, as 
well as organizing Friday Forum. I should try and get out other 
appointment done soon as well. I was kind of stressed this week 
about going to the job fair and prepping my resume, and I'm still a 
bit anxious about applying for summer internships. I guess I'm 
scared that I'll have an interview that I'm not qualified for, or that the 
job search will detract from my schoolwork. I should remember that 
it's a low-stakes game and mostly I'm just doing this for experience. 
Today I will prepare a tentative list of where I'll apply, along with 
some emails to people about research. I was consistent with my 
scripture study and institute participation this week, and I liked the 
meditation exercise Bro. Hunt challenged us to do. I think I'll try that 
more often. I could have been more attentive during our family call. 
After all, they're my family and I love and need them. I should talk to 
Emmanuel about meeting with the missionaries and invite Robert to 
church this week as well. 
Sometimes, I am concerned that my life will be all work. I don't know 
what I should do to combat that feeling. I typically enjoy my work, 
but still, if I work all the time, it doesn't leave me free to do other 
things of worth. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 17, 2016 AT 11:27 PM 

Good days today. Why do I feel like I accomplished nothing even 
though I was doing stuff all day? In the morning, I did another 
chapter of Math 51 reading, then went to church. There was a good 
talk from someone who said that she's been experiencing doubts 
this year, especially as a result of certain church policies (read THE 
POLICY) and she thought that she should respond by focusing on 
what she really knew. For her, it was the plan of salvation. For me, it's 
the Atonement, the power of which I have felt cleanse me and 
comfort me. I cannot deny its reality. There were also talks on family 
history, which I'm more sure how to implement other than reading 
my ancestor's stories, doing indexing, and going to the temple. 
After church, a bunch of the LDSSA had dinner at Lakeside. I 
processed email, wrote my Evernote, reviewed for psych, and did 
some C++ exercises. I'm still freaking out about internships. The 
window for Facebook and Twitter is open. Microsoft is unclear. 
Research on campus is also unclear, but I will email Professor Widom 
tomorrow for more info. The thing I think I stress most about is 
technical interviews that I may not be prepared for (or have time to 
prepare for). Arguably, these are a lot like exams, which I do well on, 
but I want deeper CS background to get ready for them. Anyway, I 
guess I'm just annoyed that the internship thing is another job to 
deal with on top of all my other responsibilities, giving me one more 
reason that I can never rest, because there's always work to do 
somewhere. 
In scripture study, I read my Patriarchial blessing, which promises 
meaning and happiness for my life. For better or for worse, I have to 
discover that meaning, presumably through trial, error, and 
inspiration. To get that inspiration, I'll have to pray for the Spirit and 
follow its promptings all the time, not just when I feel I'm in need. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° LIGHT RAIN 

MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 2016 AT 11:17 PM 

A good MLK day today. It was a holiday, at least in the sense that I 
didn't have classes. I still spent most of the day doing work, with the 
exception of taking a break to read a few SAY submissions. I finished 
the reading for Math 51, reviewed two more chapters for psych, and 
finished the first part of the assignment for CS106B with Brig, which, 
surprisingly, worked pretty much as expected the first time we ran it 
after fixing the syntax bugs. I also did a practice problem on the 
Math midterm, and looked up possible a psych studies for my 
research project. (I'm thinking of maybe doing something involving 
choice architecture and environmental consequences, or software 
design). I also looked more into internships. I think I'll apply to 
Twitter, Facebook, and Microsoft's programs. One issue is that I 
don't know if I'll be available early enough since Stanford gets out 
late and I have the chorale trip tacked on to it. However, I'm having 
trouble figuring out the availability dates for the jobs. I also 
contacted Jeff Swindle and plan to contact Jennifer Widom. I'm still 
working on drafting her email. Ungh, I'm just so busy. I sometimes 
feel like I live two lives: my life at home where I play computer 
games, read, watch movies, and spend time with family, and my life 
at school where I work. I don't know if that's healthy. 
In scripture study, I read in Judges, mostly about Gideon. My 
Patriarchial blessing says “the Lord is with you”, just as the angel 
said to Gideon. Sometimes I'm tempted to respond as Gideon, “If 
the Lord is with me, then why aren't things going more smoothly?” 
Or “Why am I not less stressed?” Or “Why am I not more confident 
about my life course?” I guess the key is that the Lord liberates us 
through us which means that things can be better, if I rely on the 
Lord to guide me as to how to improve them. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016 AT 11:49 PM 

Good day today. Was quite rainy. Got pretty soaked going to Psych 
section in the morning. We got to handle real human brains, though, 
which made up for it. Carol Dweck uses the classroom after us, so I 
introduced myself and Kent's brother and had a brief conversation 
with her. I also asked Steven, my TF, about Psych research, and 
apparently you can still get in at the end of the quarter, when they'll 
be having an info session on it, so that will be a good fallback. I had 
Jeff introduce me to his old boss at USCIS, who said he'd consult 
with his intern coordinator, so the gears are turning there. I'm 
prepping stuff to apply to Twitter, Facebook, and Microsoft, but I 
want my resume reviewed by someone at BEAM before I do so. 
Anyway, I had math section, then rushed from there to chorale 
rehearsal. In the evening, I went to a Math 51 review suasion on 
proofs, then ducked out early to go to a CS+ Social Good event 
where various speakers discussed what their companies were doing 
to accomplish social good. And there was Ike's sandwiches. I also 
reviewed my Math 51 Pset with a study group. Most of it was good, 
but there were a few things I'll have to redo. 
In scripture study, I read stuff about Jesus Christ being the creator to 
prep for institute tomorrow. My question is, “What meaning does it 
add to our testimonies to understand that Jehovah created the 
world, instead of Elohim alone?” How does this change our lives? 
Same question with why the creation is described as divided into 
periods (some of which are out of order with the scientific record)? 
Perhaps there is meaning for my life to be gleaned from there 
things. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016 AT 12:03 AM 

Good day today. Went to Math in the morning, CS at noon, and 
Psych in the afternoon. Connor confirmed my suspicions that not 
everyone likes Bro. Rasmussen's teaching style in institute. I worked 
with Brig on the CS project and we made a lot of progress in just 
over an hour. In the evening, we had “Crossing the Line”, where 
everyone in FroSoCo got together and crossed a line of certain 
statements applied to them, everything from “I have a parent or 
sibling who is gay” to “I feel like someone at Stanford knows me 
deeply.” A good event. 
In scripture study, I read in Judges about Samson. One lesson I drew 
from it is not to waste my talents just doing whatever benefits me. I 
should invest them for others' good. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016 AT 11:58 PM 

Good day today. Thursday is my sleep in day, so I got to wake up at 
8:00, which was nice. Normal Math and CS sections. Speaking of 
math, I did a practice exam for next week's midterm. I was able to 
do most of the problems and didn't miss too much besides the fairly 
new content, but it made me want to study more to make sure that I 
really have the concepts down. I thinks I'll apply the same strategy as 
Calc and “Blue Packet of Death” it by doing lots of previous exam 
questions. I hope that the more I have a base in things now, the 
easier it will be to prepare for the final. I also went to institute, where 
we discussed finding types of Christ in the lion Samson killed and in 
Ruth. Bro. Hunt is such a boss. Later in the evening, I went to a 
resume workshop and had a BEAM counselor look it over and 
suggest minor edits. I'll send it off for one last look by the Madre 
and then use it for my internship applications. I also had chorale 
rehearsal, which went well. Although I still have a lot to learn in the 
music, I'm getting a handle on it (or a “Handel” on it, as the case 
may be.) I apologize to future readers for that atrocious pun, I just 
couldn't Bach away from it. Well, that's all. Tomorrow there's Friday 
Forum and Psych exam. 
In scripture study, I read about the aforementioned Samson story, as 
well as Ruth. I think one lesson from Samson's story is the danger of 
specific, conscious exposure to temptation. Twice in three chapters 
there's a story in which he has a secret that he doesn't want to 
reveal, but his girlfriend keeps pestering and pestering him. His 
resistance is worn down until he gives in. Similarly, when we willingly 
place ourselves in environments where we are exposed to consistent 
temptation (say, repeatedly visiting a website with pornographic 
advertising, or hanging around friends who swear a lot), then our 
resistance to win can be worn down. On the other hand, I believe 
that if we strive to avoid those situations but are forced to 
sometimes endure them because of our position, job, and the nature 
of the world, Heavenly Father will protect us from being “corrupted” 
so to speak. However, that protection disappears when we willfully 
expose ourselves to temptations. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 AT 11:57 PM 

Good day today. I had Math 51 in the morning, in which we 
discussed rank and nullity. In CS, we talked about how to do 
recursion with more examples, including some graphical ones. 
Cynthia Lee, the LDS CS professor spoke at Friday Forum. She 
discussed: (1) forgiving others as choosing to no longer view them as 
having a sinful identify (i.e., forgiving the lie and choosing not to 
categorize the offender as a liar) and (2) follow the little voice that 
tells you what you enjoy. She made the point that you do more of 
what you work at, so if you stick to work you don't like and put it on 
your resume, chances are you'll get more of it. After that, I had the 
Psych Midterm, which went very well. I felt quite confident about my 
answers. Which reminds me, I need to do step one of the Psych 
research boo. I only wish I felt as confident about the Math 51 exam. 
I did another practice exam today, and there were two questions that 
I absolutely didn't know how to do. Part of it is that the rank-nullity 
theorem is new and I need to master that. I understand the basic 
principles, I went through and defined most of a list of 30 key 
concepts. The issue is applying it. I plan on doing one practice test 
per day until the real test. Anyway, I had my first IG for 106B and it 
was good. I got a few notes about having more descriptive function 
and variable names and getting rid of a bit of errant white space, but 
it was mostly positive. I worked with Brig today to finish the 
functionality for N-Grams, so now we just need to comment and 
clean. I really should be commenting as I go. This weekend I should 
also send off applications to Twitter and Microsoft. Well, that's about 
it. I'd better stop writing before I give myself more things to do. 
In scripture study, I read through “The Living Christ” and replaced 
the sentences where the apostles testify with the first person for “I 
testify.” I was pleased to not that so could support the whole 
document with conviction. I was also impressed by the contrast 
between Samson and Samuel, who had similar birth circumstances 
but very different life outcomes. Choose ye this day whom ye shall 
serve. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 24, 2016 AT 1:34 AM 

Good day. Short entry. Late. Did homework. Studied for Math. Saw 
“Into the Woods” it was good. Skyped with family. In scripture study, 
learned about Saul's initial humility, much like Samuel's when the 
Lord called him. The difference was that Samuel kept his humility. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 24, 2016 AT 9:06 AM 

It's been a busy week. I definitely worked hard, although I didn't 
have as much to do at the beginning of the week as now, when I feel 
swamped. I had good insights from scripture reading and institute. 
I've been kind of out of it in my prayers lately, so they could be more 
meaningful. The issue is I lose focus. I could try pray standing up and 
totally aloud sometimes to see if that makes a difference. I do a 
decent job of “praying in my heart” throughout the day, whether it's 
thanking Heavenly Father for doing well on a test or asking for 
guidance to prioritize. I didn't stress about applications since I was 
still revising my resume this week, although I should send off my 
applications to internships this week. I'm apprehensive about the 
upcoming Math 51 test, but I think if I study well and work hard, I'll 
be fine. This week I won't be going to any extraneous activities, I'll 
use my extra time for 51 study. I should follow up with Emmanuel 
about the missionaries and Robert about church. The latter I haven't 
seen recently, the former I actually need to stop and have a 
conversation with. I should also seek out and try to contact some 
people from my mission, if now today then next week. FriForum has 
been going well, I just need to keep on top of it. Sometimes this 
week I've had foul language come into my mind. I could do a better 
job of using a prayer in my heart to banish it, so an initially bad 
stimulus can be turned to good, as Brother Quinn discussed. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° PARTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016 AT 12:32 AM 

Good Sabbath today. Busy. Got up at 8:30, which wasn't a ton of 
sleep for the weekend, since I retired at 1:30. Thankfully, I did 
accomplish my to-do list for today, everything from finishing the 
Psych Reading and project part 1 to starting in the homework to 
submitting the CS assignment with Brig. It was a lot of work though. 
I did homework basically all day besides church, which was 
inspirational. One speaker categorized faith as “wanting something 
to be true.” I pondered cognitive dissonance in Sunday school (see 
my notes) and there was a lesson on dating in Priesthood. I have 
wanted to date since a I got here but never felt like I've had the time 
to set aside to consider who is available, who I'll ask out, what we'll 
do, and actually do it. This quarter I have internship applications on 
top of everything, which is problematic… Anyway, enough whining. 
G'night 
In scripture study, I learned about Saul's great error of choosing to 
make a sacrifice without authority when Samuel took a long time 
coming to him. He was more afraid of losing to the Philistines or 
having his people abandon him thank offending God. Am I more 
afraid of doing poorly in a class or not getting an internship than 
offending God by making myself so busy that I omit “the better 
part”? Sometimes I do feel like the whole “School, Work, 
Relationships” thing where each is a ball I'm juggling and one is 
always on the floor is true. Well, sleep is ball #4, so I'm going to pick 
that one up right now… 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016 AT 12:02 AM 

Good day today. math in the morning, CS at noon, and Psych 
afterwards. In Psych, we were talking about memory, and Bridgette 
(one of the profs) folds us that they'd conspired to plant some false 
memories about Professor Walton tripping on the first day of class, 
as well as him changing his story about hitting his daughter's head 
on an airplane flight. False memories galore! Also had chamber 
chorale practice, which was good, I need to do more practice, 
maybe after this midterm… Oh, but I need to apply to internships 
then too… Anyway, I did get to take a practice test, which went 
better than the first two. I hope that's a sign of improvement and not 
just random fluctuation. I went to FHE, where we built rafts out of 
drinking straws. I went to Habla, but Nicolas wasn't there, so I 
fortuitously got to go home early. On the way home, I was stopped 
by the police on Santa Teresa because I had stopped at the stop 
sign and had bike lights, and they gave me a $10 gift card to the 
Stanford bookstore, which was fun. Now I'm listening to this 
nostalgic song. 
In scripture study, I read about how Jesus Christ is Jehovah. I was 
reminded of the principle that revelation often comes only after 
action. Also, I read Alma 5:14, and thought about how a change of 
heart is really a continual process of renewal rather than a discrete 
event. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016 AT 12:08 AM 

Good day today. Had Psych section in the morning where we 
discussed memory. Also had Math section. (Yes, Math must be 
capitalized.) Discussed Hannah's faithfulness and what it means to 
increase in favor with man without seeking the honors of men or 
rather, having your heart set. Speaking of the honors of men, I sent 
out my Twitter application today. So, there goes. I also did two Math 
51 Practice exams, which went better than the previous ones, quite 
well in fact. Yay, hard work does pay off! I also went to office hours 
for Math, although I'm not sure it really helped answer my questions 
that much. That's about it. Oh yes, lunch and dinner were both 
exceptionally good. There was this creamy curry at lunch and an 
eggplant pesto panini, dinner had beef barbacoa. Mmm… 
In scripture study, I read more about Saul, and his decline. 
Fundamentally, both major incidents with performing unworthy 
ordinances and not destroying the Amalakites involved him fearing 
what his people would think about him more than what God would 
think. I think this came from pride and “seeking the honors of men” 
as I mentioned earlier. Perhaps we will be happier if our hearts 
weren't set so much on those honors. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016 AT 11:40 PM 

Good day today. You know the drill, Math, CS, Psych. Also went to 
institute with Bro. Rasmussen. It might have been my imagination, 
but it looked like Connor was writing frustrated notes about the class 
on his Subway napkin and then ripping them up. Perhaps I should 
start polling the class to see the general reaction, after all, I am part 
of the institute committee. I should also see about inviting Victor 
when I get the chance. 
I worked on recursion with Brig, and sadly, our programs did not 
work the first time (surprise, surprise). However, the bugs were 
relatively minor math or syntax things and not conceptual problems 
with recursion, so we did end up finishing two of the five problems in 
about an hour and a half. Good progress. I went to the Math 51 
review session, which I'm not sure was net positive or net confusing, 
but I did solidify how to find a matrix that has N(A) or C(A) as the 
subspace of another matrix. I went to Habla, but Nicolas wasn't 
there, so I went home early and studied more. I also orders Friday 
Forum food. Tomorrow's the big day. I've studied hard, so now's the 
time to let it shine! Oh l, almost forgot, a miracle occurred! I cleared 
my entire Any.Do list for the day! I now have 12 minutes of respite… 
In scripture study, I read about Saul and Daniel, with their former's 
fall contrasting with the latter's rise. Saul even fell to the level that 
Samuel feared he would be killed for anointing a new king. Why 
didn't Saul repent. Perhaps because his “heart was set so much 
upon the things of this world, and aspired to the honors of men, that 
he did not learn this one lesson– 
That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the 
powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be 
controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness.” 
(D&C 121:35-36). Wise warnings for our time. Repentance is there, 
but it only works if we want it and choose to use it. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016 AT 12:32 AM 

Good day. It's late, so I'll be short. Slept in, went to Math section, 
reviewed more for the midterm, had interesting discussions in 
institute about Abigail as a type of Christ, Saul's failings, and 
Samuel's charity. Good times in CS section. Oh yes, I also had 
Subway for lunch. Took the early sitting of the Math 51 midterm so 
so could go to chorale practice. The test went well, I wasn't really 
stumped by any of the questions, and I finished with w good half 
hour to go over my answers and even correct an error. Hard work 
and Heavenly Father's blessings really paid off (I think. I know I was 
define blessed with a calm during the test that I didn't feel before it). 
Right before the test, I got an email from Juntos asking me for my 
cover letter and resume for an application!!! Eeek to the freak! Well, 
I'll pursue it and see where it leads me. I'm not set on any of these 
internships I'm applying for, I'll just do my best and get some 
interview experience. Finally, tonight I tried to start catching up on 
the extra work I have from focusing on Midterm study. 
In scripture study, as well as institute, I pondered Abigail as a type of 
Christ, prostrating herself in danger before David to make 
intercession for someone who was objectively a sinner. I can certainly 
learn from her charity, as well as Samuel's, who loved Saul although 
he thought his life might be in danger from him. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, JANUARY 30, 2016 AT 12:18 AM 

Good day today. After Math 51, I picked up Kent's car and drove 
with Peter to get the food for Friday Forum that I'd ordered to be 
catered at HoBee's. Everything went well and so even made it back 
in time to catch the first bit of CS before FriFo. Bro. Johnson spoke 
and gave good points about unplugging (I say as I write on my 
phone.) and serving without expectation of reward or even requiring 
that the person “deserves it.” Cool guest lecture on linguistics in 
Psych. After that I started pounding my homework, since Math 
readings had accumulated during the week. I've gotten through 
most of them now. Tomorrow I finish Psych, finish Math readings, 
work on CS, work on my Juntos cover letter (did I mention that they 
emailed me for an application?) and maybe my Microsoft 
application. So much to do. I should also schedule home teaching 
and perhaps think about the next stage for my Psych project. It 
wouldn't be a bad idea to start some midterm prep for CS either. 
In scripture study, I read about David's great error with Bathsheba. It 
struck me that a series of small indiscretions (choosing to stay in his 
palace instead of conduct the war, looking at Bathsheba from his 
balcony, inviting her to the palace) led to gross sins and David's 
great fall. That makes it all the more important to watch yourself in 
the little things, as it says in Mosiah 4:30. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° SHOWERS NEARBY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 31, 2016 AT 12:20 AM 

Good day today. Lovely brunch at Wilbur. Finished my Psych reading 
and Math readings before the family call at 1:00. I guess I wasn't too 
energetic during the call, as Madre kept commenting “Gordon, you 
look so pale!” “Gordon, you look so disthymic!” Naturally, neither of 
these comments made me look either less pale or less disthymic. 
When asked “Do you have any fun plans for the weekend?” I 
truthfully said, “No.” as I have to catch up on homework that 
accumulated while I was studying for the math midterm, and on top 
of it all, I have to do internship applications. Admittedly, I feel like I 
was getting rather mixed messages during the call, as I was 
encouraged to both do more fun things and apply to more 
internships. I'm not sure my family has a good concept of how much 
time I spend doing work on my classes… Maybe that's an unfair 
judgement, but it would explain the paradoxical advice. Anyway, 
after the call, Madre called me and said “I'm worried about you.” (I 
appreciate the sentiment, but how is this supposed to put me in a 
better mood?) I said the abridged form of what I wrote above. 
I do feel like I'm more busy than optimal, but it's mostly course load 
and internships, both of which should be done now, busy or no. I 
was feeling fine before the call, but after it I didn't feel very good. (I 
read about it this morning in my Psych book. It's called “stereotype 
threat”. It's where fear of conforming to a certain stereotype causes 
stress and expectations that make us drift toward that stereotype. 
So, I felt some stereotype threat for disthymia.) I'm honestly fine with 
my classes, the only thing that stresses me out is internship 
applications, where I'll be spending a lot of time and effort preparing 
applications and practicing interviews for positions I may not be 
qualified for and have a low chance of receiving, not to mention how 
the interview process tends to stress me out. The sentiment that 
“Don't worry if you don't get anything this year. It's good prep for 
next year.” Is cold comfort for the hours poured into applications 
that could have been invested elsewhere. When I told Madre that 
Juntos had emailed me about sending in an application, she said 
“you don't look excited.” No, I'm not particularly excited to have 
another application obligation delivered to my plate with the need 
to write a cover letter and prep for an interview that, regardless of 
the outcome, will be time-consuming and stressful. No, I can't jump 
for joy at the prospect. Anyway, all of this negative sarcasm is surely 
unhealthy, let's move on, shall we? Later in the afternoon, I worked 
with Brig on the CS assignment, and we actually finished all the 
functionality in about two and a half more hours (plus the hour and 
fifteen minutes we put in on Wednesday.) We had some difficulty 
with figuring out how and what the last program should return, but it 
ended up working out well. I'm surprised that we got the basic 
functionality going on the whole project in less than four hours. 
That's prodigious speed. Which reminds me, I should start prepping 
for the CS midterm. After that, I had dinner at Lag with some 
FroSoCo people and we talked about religious experience and 
bioethics. I then worked on my Juntos cover letter, brilliantly 
weaving my experiences as a missionary, research assistant, and data 
analyst (in “Big Data”) into a compelling argument that my entire life 
has been leading me to this data analysis internship. I've got to 
revise and shorten it, but at least words are on paper. 
In scripture study, I read the iconic “Thou art the man” speech from 
Nathan the prophet to David after his murder of Uriah. It is 
interesting how we can condemn others so easily for sins we blithely 
miss in ourselves. For example, I may feel totally rational in my 
unvarnished (read “blunt”) comments on my mood during the family 
call, while wondering why other people are such malcontents. (To be 
clear, I wasn't mean, I just didn't devote any mental energy to 
energetic expression.) I'm sure I'll have more insight tomorrow after 
I've slept. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 31, 2016 AT 9:50 AM 

This was a productive week. I studied very hard for the math 
midterm and I think it paid off. I got an application off to Twitter and 
have a draft of my Juntos cover letter. Everything went well 
organizing Friday Forum, from picking up the food to Brother 
Johnson's inspiring remarks. Despite the extra study I was able to 
stay on top/ catch up with my other homework. But all that is what I 
did, I should also think about how I felt. I kind of wonder if I'm doing 
too much homework/study to the detriment of other things. After all, 
in ten years will I remember doing well on a Pset or making a friend? 
(Spannaus rule.) maybe I'm too prudent and self-controlled 
sometimes. I really didn't feel distressed about this during the week, 
just the “oh, I have a lot of work to do” feeling, but I did feel it 
during the family call when I kept being asked why I wasn't more 
energetic. I enjoy my classes. It's applying for internships that I don't 
anticipate enjoying. But what am I supposed to do? Not applying for 
anything is just avoiding the issue, not solving it. I think if I did a 
whole lot of interview prep, letter revision, and so on, then I'd feel 
more confident going into the application process (a la math 51 
midterm prep). However, I don't know when I'll have time to do that, 
or rather, if I do it, then I doubt I'll have time to do anything else. 
Succinctly, the set of things I want to do, and sometimes even the 
set of things I feel I need to do, is much larger than the set of things 
I can do. 
Spiritually, I feel good about the fundamentals. I study my scriptures 
day, pray ( at least sometimes fervently), actively participate in 
institute, attend church and worthily partake of the sacrament, serve 
in my calling, attend FHE, and try to do home teaching. I'd like to do 

more service (Habla didn't work out this week .. 
), so I should be 
aware of the LDSSA service opportunities. Sometimes I wish I had 
more spiritual experiences. Partly that ties back to service, but I need 
to become more aware of when the hand of the Lord guides me in 
day-to-day activities. I guess I did feel that a little this week, as I was 
appreciably calmer while taking the math test than right before. 
Even finishing the code for CS really fast reflects inspiration. I pray 
for that, but I should work to be aware of it more and express 
gratitude for it. 

225 SANTA TERESA LN, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 31, 2016 AT 11:00 PM 

Good Sabbath. There were interesting talks in church. The first was 
on how we often preemptively judge people before we get a chance 
to know them (like ripping up a seedling because we think it's going 
to be a week). The second was on the need for forgiveness, and that 
we can rely on the Atonement to channel Christ's forgiveness when 
we don't feel able to forgive. The final talk was an RM who told 
some stories, but by that time, I'd become rather sleepy. We had an 
interesting close reading on the attributes of Laman and Lemuel in 
Sunday school. We had a combined third hour in which the a Bishop 
of the older singles ward told us that we all need to get married in 
our twenties (apparently so we don't clog up his ward). After church, 
I had a fun dinner with the LDSSA at FloMo. Tonight I went with Kent 
to a Wiserside by Terryl and Fiona Givens on choosing faith, 
specifically with the LGBT audience in mind. I expounded on it in my 
Evernote. I asked Kent about his favorite part and it somehow 
turned into a complaint about how our leaders don't admit their 
fallibility enough. I've notice that he has a new facial expression 
since I came back from my mission. It's kind of like this inverse smile 
(lips closed) where he pulls the corner of his mouth down. 
Somewhere between a frown, disgust, and bafflement. He uses it 
most often when speaking about the church. I think he's frustrated 
(and justifiably so, if I do say so myself) and to the question “Lord, to 
whom shall we go?” (John 6:68) he is increasingly leaning toward 
“other faith groups” as the answer. I don't know exactly what I am to 
do. I stay in the church because it “works” for me. It gives me 
spiritual fulfillment and challenges me to be better, idiosyncratic 
bureaucracy or no. Obviously Kent doesn't feel the same way. I don't 
know what would best invite him to stay. 
In scripture study, I reflected on my state in life and then read some 
of a conference talk on the pillars of our faith. I'd say I have very high 
levels of confidence in the existence of a loving Heavenly Father and 
the reality of the Atonement, as I've personally experienced the love 
of God, the joy of repentance, and the peace that passeth all 
understanding from the comfort of the Atonement. Other things like 
the Book or Mormon or Joseph Smith as a prophet, I believe, as they 
accurately conduct me toward what I know (the Atonement). 
However, I can't tie back visceral spiritual experiences to them as 
well as an can do for the first few points. Not that they haven't 
happened, I mean, I remember singing “A Poor Wayfaring Man of 
Grief” in Carthage Jail and feeling the Spirit and thinking “I guess 
that's my answer.” But there's still an element of “I guess” there. 
Maybe there always is with such things. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 123° PARTLY CLOUDY 

February 2016 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016 AT 11:44 PM 

Good day today. Math in the morning. We discussed partial 
derivatives and matrices. I've been doing some of the homework 
and some of the problems don't seem to be included in what I've 
read or heard in class. I may have to make use of office hours 
tomorrow… We talked more about Big O in CS. Chamber chorale 
practice was sparse. I really need to go over the Brahams. My new 
goal is 15 minutes per day. I sent off my application for Juntos after 
having Kentre and Madre review the cover letter. We'll see how it 
goes. Brig and I finished up the CS assignment and had a good IG 
with Charissa. I should really start studying for the CS midterm. I 
should have some time to start tomorrow. I should really write in my 
journal less often, it seems to keep giving me things to do. I went to 
the church for a home teaching lesson with Alex, but he'd forgotten, 
so we rescheduled for tomorrow. Nicolas didn't show up for the third 
time in a row at Habla, which is unfortunate. The extra study time 
was useful though. Also in the news, the Iowa caucuses were today. 
Ted Cruz actually beat Trump by a few points. (Of all the people, why 
does it have to be him?) Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders were 
neck and neck, with Hillary barely edging Bernie out. Interesting 
stuff. I don't have much opinion on either since I don't know their 
policies, but from a pragmatic standpoint, I support Hillary as more 
electable. Speaking of which, I need to register to vote… 
In scripture study, I reviewed the home teaching lesson on focusing 
on our long-term goals, especially the gospel, rather than trials. I 
thought it was apt advice as I worry about internship applications 
and stuff. As long as I'm learning how to write resumes and cover 
letters, apply to jobs, and do interviews, then I guess it's a valuable 
experience, and the work is well-invested. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016 AT 11:43 PM 

Good day today. Lite Psych section in the morning, as we have 
Steven a small group evaluation. Math 51 section. They said the 
average grade on the midterm was something like 52/76, Eeek! 
They haven't posted grades yet, though, so we'll just have to wait 
and see… I picked up new notebooks and notebook paper at the 
bookstore, then went home and brainstormed Psych research project 
ideas, as I have to write up two of those babies by Monday night. I 
did a tad of study for the CS midterm and was surprised to find that 
my answer to one of the section questions matched the answer 
sheet literally word for word, even in the variable names. I guess 
that's a good sign. I also did the math reading, but became very 
tired and took a 10 minute powernap. Speaking of ten minutes, the 
ten minute video on partial derivatives and the chain rule I watched 
was at least as informative as the book, and certainly more 
understandable and less time-consuming. After dropping by Math 
office hours, I went to the church to home teach Alex. Grant is still 
out of commission since he missed his flight, so I did it solo. It was a 
really good lesson, especially considering that it was only my second 
with Alex. We discussed President Uchtdorf's message on not 
focusing on our trials, and we both committed to write in our 
journals the goals and things that we value. (I also brought up the 
psych study about how low-performance children who wrote down 
what they valued before a test did better (by reduction of stereotype 
threat)). Yay, good stuff. I drafted an email to Michael Gottleib, Jeff 
Swindle's old boss, to follow up on internship leads. I should send it 
tomorrow. I found some possible research positions for CS on Curis 
as well, so I should get applications going there, although it doesn't 
seem like you submit too much. 
I did scripture study before my run since it was raining for 20 minutes 
or so after I woke up. Consequently I was very tired. (Actually, I've 
been unnaturally tired all day, on and off.) So, I didn't learn much 
other than that Psalms is cool, which I could have learned from 
talking to any Hispanic in my mission. We did have a lively discussion 
in institute of the slippery slope of David's sin. A lesson: if you're in a 
spiritual place that you know you shouldn't be, take the high road 
and get out now, even though it may be embarrassing and painful. 
Staying in there will just get you stuck deeper. On that happy note, 
G'night! 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016 AT 8:24 AM 

So, I committed Alex, one of my home teachees, to write down the 
things that he values most in his journal, and I promised to do the 
same, so here goes. 

Values and Goals 


I value my relationship with my family. My mom, dad, and 
brother. I wish to be with them in the eternities after this life. 
I value doing good in the world. Whether it is simply helping set 
up tables or feeding and uplifting the impoverished, I want to 
consistently reach out to help my brothers and sisters have 
better lives. 
I value the peace that the gospel brings into my life, and 
especially the sense of perspective and cognitive reappraisal it 
gives me when I experience difficulties. 


I value my relationship with Heavenly Father, that I love Him and 
feel I can trust Him. I do not want to do anything that would 
distance myself from that connection. 
I value learning, understanding more about the complex world in 
which we live, making connections between diverse concepts, 
and improving my skills. 
222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 41° PARTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016 AT 11:43 PM 

Good day today. Math in the morning. I should take some time to 
review the concepts this weekend as I'm a little shaky on a few 
things. I also plan on doing a practice test for CS on Friday, Saturday, 
and Sunday, so that will take up a fair amount of weekend time. I'll 
also need to do my R&W part 2 for Psych and study for hat midterm. 
Consequently, my goal is to get my applications to CURIS, the 
undergraduate CS research forum, off before this weekend. 
Speaking of which, today I emailed Michael Gottlieb to follow up on 
internship opportunities and a split second after I sent the email 
(which I'd drafted the previous night and proofread), I realized that 
I'd misspelled his name. Oopsies. Anyway, this journal entry is 
becoming one giant to-do list, and since I already have one of those, 
I shouldn't duplicate. In institute, we discussed Christ's birth and 
prophecies surrounding it. I know that Bro Rasmussen is trying hard, 
but sometimes he gets on my nerves. He seems to pick a particular 
religious group to attack each lesson. This lesson his target was the 
Jews who denied that Jesus was the Messiah on the basis that he 
simply read the scriptures and then, cognizant of the prophecies, 
acted on his own to appear to fulfill them. Bro Rasmussen 
denigrated this point, pointing to things like Gethsemane and the 
resurrection as incontrovertible proof of Christ's divinity. Which they 
are… if you believe the New Testament account. If you have an 
ounce of skepticism, then it's not unreasonable to argue that Jesus 
simply acted out the prophecies he read about and the others were 
“fulfilled” by clever deception or written in post hoc by the authors 
of the New Testament. Not that I believe that, of course, but it's a 
rational view and in my opinion didn't deserve the scorn Bro. 
Rasmussen treated it with. Regardless, I think this serves to highlight 
the point that our testimonies are not centered on rational facts or 
fulfillment of prophecies (I brought this up in class to redirect the 
discussion). It is far to easy for us to rely on belief perseverance and 
heuristics to bend rationality to our opinion, as the Jews who denied 
Christ did (and dare I say, as we do when we are too dismissive or 
condescending of alternative viewpoints). Anyway, rant over. I went 
to SAY tonight, for the first time in two weeks, which was a nice 
break. Nicolas still wasn't at Habla, which was probably a blessing in 
disguise, as I needed the time to finish up work and get to sleep. 
In scripture study, I read more Messianic Psalms of David. I was 
struck by the important point that righteousness and positive life 
events are only somewhat correlated. Terrible things can happen to 
us even when we're trying to do our best to do good and “measure 
up.” Look at Job. Look at Nephi. Look at Christ. “My God, My God, 
why hast thou forsaken me?” I don't think God has really forsaken us 
in those situations. Not in the sense that He isn't watching us and 
rooting for us. Sometimes though, He chooses not to intervene 
immediately. Sometimes He waits until the fourth watch. Sometimes 
His intervention doesn't change our circumstances, but our 
perspective. The examples of the three figures so mentioned earlier 
are heartening, in that we will feel that Heavenly Father is in our lives 
again if we press forward. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016 AT 11:54 PM 

Good day today. Slept in, yay! Went to Math Section, which I could 
understand, although I still need to review some stuff. This is a-
chronological, but I also got my Math 51 midterm grade back, and I 
got a 70/76. The average was 53 (the median 54 and the Standard 
Deviation 11, FYI), so I definitely am pleased with the result. I'll have 
to do it all over again in a week though when I start studying for the 
next midterm… I had lunch with Professor Donohue, my PMA, and 
some of the other advisees at the faculty club. (It reminded me of 
when our family would eat at the UT a Club to mark the end of the 
school year. Mmm… Good times.) We discussed everything from 
finding summer internships to how Professor Donohue tracked down 
a random guy in Argentina for an adoption case. After that, I had a 
meeting with Steven, my psych teaching fellow, to discuss my 
research and writing project. It was useful and chill. Brig and I also 
started Boggle for CS. It reminds me of Yahtzee, as you have to 
implement the logic for a game that already has the GUI 
implemented. There's quite a bit to do, but we got the first 
milestone of six done. Had a FroSoCafe at the Dean and Deaness's 
house tonight, and I sat at a table discussing who people supported 
as a presidential candidate. I don't like the Republican field because 
they deny global warming. Between Clinton and Sanders, I don't 
know their policy platforms well enough to distinguish them, 
although from a pragmatic standpoint, Clinton is more moderate, 
experienced, and well-known, which could make her more electable. 
In Chorale, we had memory spot checks on “Set Down Servant”, 
which thankfully went well (answer to my prayers). We also discussed 
the ethics behind signing in African American Vernacular as a 
predominantly Caucasian choir. My thoughts are that just as it would 
be wrong to forbid a predominantly black choir from singing certain 
pieces because they're black, it would be wrong to forbid a white 
choir to sing certain pieces simply because they're white. 
In scripture study, I read more Psalms. I decided that I should spend 
more of my day rejoicing in it rather than wishing I were somewhere 
else doing something else. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2016 AT 12:36 AM 

Good day today. Decent Math 51 lecture. I hope that the homework 
will help me to solidify the content. We started learning about 
pointers today in CS, which are apparently a key topic, so I should 
review those. We had an excellent Friday Forum where Liz Wiseman, 
who studies organizations and leadership spoke. She discussed the 
rather fraught relationship between intellect and good leadership. 
Smart people with good intentions can be poor leaders because 
they impose their intelligence on others, either by adopting the role 
of the “idea person” or the “pacesetter”, which can be discouraging 
for those on your team because they feel that they don't need to or 
can't contribute fully (basically encouraging social loafing). She 
talked about how being an amateur can allow you to challenge the 
status quo and established mental sets, as well as the positive 
correlation between the level of challenge of a job and job 
satisfaction. After Psych lecture, I took a practice CS test, which went 
moderately well, although I need to study more tomorrow. This 
evening, I went to interfaith Shabbat at Hillel, since my friend Lizzie 
invited me. I went to the Reform Jewish services, where we sang 
prayers in Hebrew (with a bit of English, no music though!), had a 
silent prayer section as well, along with standing up and facing 
certain ways at certain parts of the service. After the Shabbat service, 
which lasted about an hour, there was a dinner. It started out with 
everyone having wine in little cups very reminiscent of the sacrament 
cups (I had grape juice), which they said a prayer over and we drank. 
They then blessed the challah bread, which we broke and passed, 
tearing off little pieces to eat. (Sounds a lot like the Sacrament, 
doesn't it.) Over dinner, we discussed our perspectives on faith and 
interfaith relations. I sat next to a Zoroastrian, a practitioner of 
Baha'i, a Hindu, and two Jewish people. Quite possible the most 
diverse religious group that I've ever been with. Despite that, I was 
struck more by our similarities than our differences. The importance 
of values, of believing in somethings greater than yourself, and of 
consciously choosing a life path transcended creed and ritual. It was 
really a wonderful experience. In fact, I'd have to say that that lesson 
was at least as important as anything I learned in scripture study 
today. We are more alike than we are different. Truth can be found in 
all faith, and as brothers and sisters, we all really worship the same 
God. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2016 AT 12:59 AM 

I did a lot today, and yet I feel like I didn't do enough. For Psych, I 
listened to a Radiolab episode reinterpreting Stanley Milgram's 
electric shock study not as obedience, but rather people working 
toward a cause they believed in. I finished my R&W part 2 and 
reviewed a chapter for the midterm. In Math, I read a chapter in 
Colley and made painstakingly slow progress on the homework. I 
feel like I get the examples in the book while I'm going along, but 
due to a combination of forgetting and greater complexity, I run into 
trouble with the exercises. In CS, Brig and I worked for three hours 
on the assignment, and made moderate headway (enough to get 
user input and recursively check if it's correct). I also looked over my 
CS practice test from yesterday and it seemed good, which is an 
encouraging sign. I submitted two applications to the undergraduate 
CS research site CURIS. I Skyped with my family for half an hour, 
during which I was once again criticized for a dysthymia I did not 
feel. I think my facial expressions on these calls are just very neutral. I 
had a nice conversation with Effie, another friend from FroSoCo 
(incidentally, also Jewish) about linguistics over dinner. She seems 
like she's be a good fit for the SymSys major, and she mentioned her 
interest in it, so I'll be putting her in contact with Kent to discuss 
that. After feeling that I was losing effectiveness, I took a study break 
and did an an implicit association test (IAT), through Harvard's online 
site Project Implicit. The test does associated word/picture response 
times, and tests whether your response time slows when you have to 
associate a positive stimulus with a stigmatized group. For example, 
I did the black/white study, which involved categorizing black and 
white faces and positive and negative words with two buttons on the 
keyboard. Surprisingly, it found little to no implicit bias against black 
pekoe in my responses. Not that I think I'm racist or anything, but I 
wouldn't have been surprised if the test had revealed some 
subconscious effects from the racially biased society in which we live. 
Anyway, that's what I do during my nerdy study breaks. I should have 
practiced chorale music instead. What I Gould do right now is sleep. 
In scripture study, I learned that I can make my life a temple for God 
to dwell in, although I am the least of the kingdom, from reading 
Solomon's derogatory prayer. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2016 AT 9:48 AM 

I was blessed this week not to have any midterms, so I was able to 
regroup a bit and do some fun stuff like going to interfaith Shabbat 
or FroSoCafe. I did really well on my first math midterm, which was 
definitely a blessing from Heavenly Father. I'd better start studying 
for the next one though, as I'm having a bit of trouble applying the 
material to the homework assignments. Things are chugging along 
besides that academically. 
As always, it's easier to keep my thoughts clean when I am busy and 
not fatigued. I had a moment last night where I began searching for 
Barbie pictures online, but then I stopped before anything, which 
was good, but it's always better to not even entertain the thought. I 
was able to get some home teaching done this week through 
persistent effort, which was good. Hopefully Peter and I will be able 
to to well together in our new assignment. This week and probably 
the next I'll be picking up food for Friday Forum, so there's another 
way to serve. Spiritually, I feel alright. I still have the fundamentals 
going. And I got to connect with lots of mission friends via 
Facebook! 
Emotionally I feel fine, except when I talk to my family and they say 
“Why aren't you doing more X?” Where X is “fun stuff” “going on 
dates” or “applying to internships”. I spend nearly all of my day 
engaged in some sort of structured or pre-scheduled task, so I'm not 
entirely sure how to fit anything else in. In fact, the only way that any 
of those things will happen is if I make them structured and pre-
scheduled, as I don't have enough free time to seek them out 
spontaneously. So, I guess that would involve putting a reminder on 
my task list and adding an item to my calendar if I really want it to 
happen. I do feel like I spend a more than optimal amount of time 
working, but I feel that it's necessary if I want to master the material. 
There are obviously other important reasons to be in school, so I 
want to balance the classroom learning with social learning, and 
building relationships and connections. That's what I'm fasting for 
today, balance. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2016 AT 11:32 PM 

Good day today. I'm trying to get to bed early, so I'll keep this short 
and sweet. Finished the Math reading this morning. Went to church, 
fast Sunday. One person shared his testimony about this golden 
investigator he met on his mission who became a golden convert 
then died in a car accident a few months later. He talked about 
feeling super distraught because this man had been doing 
everything right and then having the thought “If he's really been 
doing everything right, then why should I be worried?” Through that 
experience he gained a more personal witness of the plan of 
salvation. Perhaps that should go in my Evernote… Maybe 
tomorrow. Did a CS practice test, which went well, along with some 
chorale practice, Psych review. Had dinner with Connor and 
Brickelle. 
In scripture study, I continued reading about Solomon in 1 Kings 9:47, 
which made me think about what other Gods I may be serving in 
my life. My grades? I guess that's what I devote a lot of effort to, not 
wrongly, but perhaps misguidedly, as there are other things at 
Stanford with more lasting value. Tomorrow, I think I'll read more 
about recognizing the Spirit in Preach My Gospel. 

561–581 LOS ARBOLES AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016 AT 11:52 PM 

Good day today. I actually understood what was going on in Math 
51, yay! Maybe I should offer desperate prayers for assistance more 
often in that class. Good chorale rehearsal, I've made progress on 
the Brahams, though I still have some to go. Fun lecture on social 
psych and how we understand other's emotions in Psych today. I did 
another CS practice midterm, which felt a little shakier than the last 
but I did a good job when I self-scored it, and it definitely seems 
designed so you have plenty of time to go over things. Went to FHE 
in the evening where we played a game where a group of three 
people tried to deceive the group that they'd had some experience, 
while really only one had. My experience was setting of the fire 
alarm at Burger King when I was five (or so). I believe I was walking 
through a door that automatically set it off. It would be interesting to 
survey our group later to see if anyone developed false memories 
from the exercise. No Nicolas at Habla tonight. By the way, XCOM 2 
just came out, and it looks totally amazing. It's gotten very high 
scores on Metacritic. I really want to play it. Two problems though: 

(1) I have no time (2) I committed to go on a date before I play any 
computer games this quarter. I'd better find me a date then… 
In scripture study, I read some Preach My Gospel about following the 
spirit, with lots of sculptures that said “I didn't know what to do, then 
I followed the Spirit.” I read more in kings, where I was struck by the 
idealized nature of the prosperity of Israel during Solomon's reign. 
Presumably the author(s) were looking back and longing for those 
times. That in itself was a lesson on the importance of not guiding 
the past and instead focusing on the present. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 AT 11:25 PM 

Good day today. I had Psych section in the morning where we talked 
about Charles Manson and the socialization of evil. Personally, I think 
people lie on something of a spectrum of their natural proclivity for 
evil. Some people would be evil even in very good environments. A 
few people will be good even in very evil environments. Most of us 
fall somewhere in the middle of the spectrum, and can be influenced 
for evil or good depending on our environment (with differing levels 
of responsiveness to positive and negative stimuli). Anyway, we also 
turned in our R&W part 2s and I got someone else's to peer review 
for my part 3, which I mostly did tonight. After Math Section, I went 
to institute, where we discussed what David meant when he spoke of 
being “conceived in sin” in Psalms 5. It could be read as a metaphor 
of his own evil and need for grace, or reflect the notion that we're all 
born into a fallen world and immersed in sin (and for those babies 
whose mothers are exposed to drugs, they start feeling those effects 
even at conception (see my Institute entry in the Gospel Library 
under “Psalm 51 to End” for more discussion). After a delicious 
lunch at FloMo, I did some homework and went to Math office 
hours. I believe I'm slowly beginning to understand… I hope. After 
dinner, I went back to Hewlett 200, where I used to have CS106A, 
for my CS106B midterm. I felt pretty good about it. I put down solid 
answers for all the questions, and unless there were hidden 
complexities that I missed, they all survived my checking them. I 
finished all the problems in an hour, which is the time Chris said it 
would take if you really knew your stuff, which is a good sign. Angela 
Cattani sat next to me. I know CS isn't her strong suit, and she's just 
taking this class to satisfy her requirements, so I hope she did alright. 
On an completely unrelated note, I thought about going on dates, 
trying to answer the “who, what, when, and how” questions (but not 
the why). I hope to invite someone soon. 
In scripture study, I read a tad about the aforementioned dating, and 
an read in Kings about Solomon's descent into idolatry and henpecked 
wifedom. (Okay, maybe I was reading a bit more into it than 
was there…) I think the biggest problem wasn't that Solomon 
rejected the Lord, but rather that he wanted to worship these other 
gods on the side, which eventually subverted his focus so he lost the 
following Jehovah as the priority of his life. It's not that we can't have 
other desires, but the danger comes in when we elevate those 
desires above or to the level of our discipleship, because it causes us 
to attempt to serve two masters. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016 AT 12:03 AM 

Good day today. Reasonable Math 51 lecture. Talked more about 
linked lists with the beacons of Gondor in CS. I asked Angela to go 
see a friend's vocal recital with me on Saturday and she accepted. 
I'm glad that I could edge out her pressing commitment to doing 

laundry .. 
. Afterward, I went to a study on ageism and if 

embodying an aged digital avatar of yourself in a virtual reality world 
(you wear goggles and hand trackers) helps you empathize with the 
elderly. Unfortunately, the study had technical difficulties, so I didn't 
get to do all the VR stuff, which was probably good, because it 
meant I could get to my psych lecture on time, where we talked 
about developmental psychology and childhood. Bridgette brought 
in her four-year-old daughter to demonstrate how children have 
trouble reasoning abstractly (i.e., conservation) or holding theory of 
mind. It was toats adorbs. In the evening, I actually had a bit of time, 
as I've done my math homework and reading, studied for my psych 
test, and made progress on a as (which Brig and I worked on this 
afternoon). Habla was canceled, and no one except me was at SAY, 
so I stayed for a little less than an hour. Since I met my goal of asking 
someone on a date, I decided to reward myself by purchasing 
XCOM 2. It looks absolutely gorgeous, (it should, as it is 30 GB!!!). 
I'm kind of surprised that my laptop can run it. That's why I needed 
that 2.4 Ghz processor. It's basically like Xenonauts with way better 
graphics and more extensive storytelling. You know it's a AAA game 
when they have dynamic animation of the loading sequence (your 
soldiers are in a drop ship). It's also quite difficult. My soldiers got 
slaughtered the first one or two times I tried a mission (I'm so used 
to Xenonauts' cover system, this one's different). But I'm getting the 
hang of it now. Anyway, it's a fun game, and after learning about the 
importance of play from Piaget in developmental psychology, it's 
probably not bad for me to relax by thinking factually from time to 
time. 
In scripture study, I read in Proverbs, some really fascinating stuff. 
Two thoughts on the need for humility: (1) we need to be humble if 
we are to learn the Lord's will for us and if we are to learn in general 
(otherwise we'd already think we knew everything, kind of like 
Donald Trump (who won the NH primary yesterday, btw)). (2) we 
need to be humble enough to follow God instead of going after 
other gods that we want to follow. Otherwise, in times of need, God 
will say “let your other gods save you.” And that just won't work. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° CLEAR 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016 AT 10:51 PM 

Good day today. Made significant progress on Boggle, both 
tweaking it in the morning and finishing it in the afternoon with Brig. 
I also studied for Psych and did a bit of the next Math homework. I 
plan on getting ready for the next midterm by doing practice tests 
every day from tomorrow Friday through Monday. I also played some 
XCOM and had a good chorale rehearsal. 
In scripture study, I learned that we are simple and error-probe, like 
the children Piaget tested, and we need God's guidance even 
thought it doesn't always make sense to us: 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2016 AT 12:46 AM 

Good day today. Math in the morning, then Eliza Wells went with me 
to pick up food for Friday Forum at Trader Joe's. We did make-your-
own sandwiches. Elijah spoke about his mission. Apparently Danish 
people are super reserved, to the extent that they think you're 
phony if you ask a stranger how they're doing. In CS, Chris talked 
about priority queues, which we'll be implementing with the next 
assignment. Brig and I also had a good IG. Always initialize your 
variables! Took the Psych midterm, which went well, although the 
perhaps not quite as well as the first. Had dinner with Peter and 
discussed home teaching. Began the first practice midterm for the 
great math review 2.0. I seemed to do well on the concepts that 
we'd covered (there was some stuff on Eigenvalues, which we 
haven't gone over, since I was taking an outdated practice test). I 
plan on hunkering down and doing at least a test a day this 
weekend. Played some XCOM, which is both beautiful and 
sometimes frustrating. Which is basically life. 
In scripture study, I read the rather depressing message of 
Ecclesiastes that all is vanity. I think that feeling comes when we have 
wasted our lives on vain things (hmm… XCOM? But also pursuit of 
career goals, money, etc). If we live with the right eternal perspective 
and work toward returning to our Heavenly Father's presence to 
have eternal life with him, then our life will have deep meaning and 
great purpose. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2016 AT 12:39 AM 

Good day today. Had brunch with Kent in the morning. Took a math 
practice test and studied more in the morning/early. I then went to 
see Daniel Borup's recital with Angela Cattani. We had some good 
conversation, and the recital was very well done (an hour of 
Romance era music, mostly German and Dutch, I hope Angela 
wasn't bored to death. She seemed to enjoy it though.) The concert 
was divided into three sections with short breaks in between, which 
allowed for us to have conversation without my (admittedly shallow) 
reservoir of questions drying up. I suppose I should take steps to 
deepen that. Anyway, it was a positive experience, which is all I can 
hope for. Had family skype this afternoon, where we talked about 
Mooples' conversation with the Bishop and Stake President about 
their journey as a family with a gay son for 30 minutes, Kentre's 
report on the Bloggernaccle for 20 minutes, and my report on my 
classes for five minutes. Así es. I should do a journal entry in Spanish 
sometime. Anyway, after a dinner at TAP with a yummy chocolate 
malt, I did more homework and then played some XCOM. I did a 
classic base defense mission where our ship got EMP'd and we had 
to fight our way out to the device and destroy it, then get back to 
the ship while doing a rearguard action against enemy 
reinforcements. I thought I'd get slaughtered, but things actually 
ended up well. I held my right flank with some shotgunners near the 
ship while my riflemen and a machine gunner advanced under the 
cover of sniper fire up the left flank and destroyed the device. We 
ended up killing 24 aliens with only two troopers wounded and none 
dead. It was a good day for XCOM. 
On a more spiritual note, in scripture study, I read about Job. In my 
Psych textbook today, I read about the zone of proximal 
development, which is a state in which children cannot do a task on 
their own but can learn how to do it with some help from their 
caregiver, thus extending their learning to the next (proximate) skill. I 
think Heavenly Father was basically moving Job to the edge of his 
zone of proximal development, so his experiences weren't so much a 
test of his righteousness as teaching him how to become even 
better. 

561–581 LOS ARBOLES AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2016 AT 9:19 AM 

I was able to accomplish a fair number of worthy goals this week. I 
invited Angela to the recital and we had a good time together (a 
date, I suppose it should be called. I should do more of those in the 
future). I worked hard to prepare for my CS and Psych midterms and 
I feel like my preparation paid off. I've started review for the Math 
midterm and I'm going to continue doing practice tests, reviewing 
concepts, and so on until the exam this week. I practiced Chamber 
Chorale music and I feel like my performance in rehearsal improved 
because of it. After all of this, I decided to reward myself by 
purchasing and playing some XCOM. I think that was a good 
decision, as I had time this week to relax and I think that play is 
actually important for my good overall health, thinking, and 
creativity, especially something strategic like XCOM. However, it's 
easy to have too much of a good thing, so I'll have to police how 
much I play. I'll probably do some tomorrow on President's day but 
will then hold off until after the Math midterm. Gotta keep those 
priorities in line. One thing I didn't do too much of this week was 
applications. I've actually nearly exhausted my list, but I do plan on 
working on the Facebook essay this weekend so my application is 
ready to submit by next weekend at the latest. I haven't heard back 
from anyone, which is understandable as I'm a freshman. I always 
have the backup of getting into Psych research in the spring. It 
would be great if I could do something involving Psych and CS. So, I 
can start laying the groundwork for that, looking around Jordan Hall 
for interesting projects. I'm glad I'm with Peter as my HT companion, 
I should make an effort to become better friends with him. I should 
also invite Lizzie to church. Okay, done. Anyway, I think peters and I 
are committed to home teaching, which is good. Scripture reading 
this week was solid. Actually, because of my habit of praying before 
using the computer to play, I think I actually got some good prayers 
in this week, although sometimes my prayers felt rushed. If I feel like 
people walking by makes me uncomfortable, I can always close the 
door. Friday Forum food prep seems like a good opportunity to get 
to know people in the LDSSA, so I should continue inviting different 
people to help out. Thoughts fairly clean, could do better about 
keeping foul language out of my mind, or at least saying a prayer 
when it intrudes so I can actually leverage it to elevate my thoughts. 
I'm working toward that balance I fasted for and I think I'm getting 
closer. It just requires actively working toward and setting aside time 
for those things. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016 AT 12:28 AM 

Good day today. Ungh, I've been working on my math homework for 
the past several hours and have made little appreciable progress, 
three problems that I'm not sure are correct. The part of the 
homework I'm working on doesn't seem to correlate well with what 
I've learned in class. I just want to go to bed. Unfortunately, Peter 
Bryan is here, as I'm providing him shelter from a rave at Roble, so, 
no bed for now. Besides math (I took another practice test today, 
which, in contrast to the first two, didn't make sense) today was 
good. There was a regional broadcast at the stake center for church 
today. All pretty conventional stuff. Elder Renlund spoke. Afterward, 
the some of the LDS freshman had lunch at Bishop Welch's house. 
We had a good time. This evening, Peter and I had a good home 
teaching lesson with Brickelle. I also got an email inviting me for an 
interview for a CURIS position. Yay, but ungh. More to do. I just want 
to sleep. 
On a brighter note, Job finally got his due and his latter part was 
better than the former. I suppose I should exercise faith that things 
will likewise work out for me. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° PARTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016 AT 11:48 PM 

Good day. President's Day so no classes. In the morning, I had 
breakfast with Brickelle, Connor, Andrew, and Peter at a restaurant 
called Jason's off campus. I satisfied my craving for a breakfast 
burrito. I did another practice math test and finished up the 
homework, although there are some parts I should go over again. I 
played some XCOM and destroyed an advent blacksite. I find it 
ironic that that mission was labeled very hard and I lost no one, while 
another that wasn't supposed to be as bad saw 1 KIA and two 
wounded. The trouble was that one was on a time limit, and I 
proceeded just a tad too cautiously. I'm not much of the run and gun 
type. Had FHE this afternoon and played Bananagrams. Did some 
interview prep talking about my greatness and gloriosity for CURIS. 
That's it. 
In scripture study, I read the iconic stories of Elijah and the widow of 
Zarapeth and Elijah and the priests of Baal. One common theme 
between the stories is that a very small quantity of high quality faith 
can work wonders. Also, don't half between two gods. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016 AT 10:58 PM 

Good day today. Pretty laid back since I only had two sections and 
no new homework was assigned. Had Psych section in the morning, 
where we got to play with toys! Talked about Piaget's stages of 
development (sensorimotor, preoperational, concrete operational, 
and formal operational). Talked about determinants in math section. 
had good chorale practice, then got lunch at Subway. I went to the 
study room at Lathrop, which seemed vaguely familiar. Either I saw it 
on tour at Stanford a long time ago or I had a dream about 
something like it. I did a Math practice test, which was good. Kent 
and I then met with a friend of Madre's and her daughter who's a 
junior in high schools do considering Stanford. We talked for five 
minutes about music at Stanford, five minutes about other Stanford-
related topics and what felt like twenty minutes about random 
stories from this girl's mom. They didn't seem to have a ton specific 
questions going in… I tried to go to YEAH hours for CS, but Chris 
had sent out the wrong location in the email, so I found myself I a 
Chem quiz. After high-tailing it out of there, I found the real room 
(back at Lathrop, actually, which I'd never visited until today when I 
went there twice.) After that, I did a psych survey on emotion that 
involved lots of self-rating and an internal vs. external expression of 
emotions IAT. While taking the survey, I got a note that the test had 
been graded. To not silly my results, I didn't check on them until 
after I finished the survey. I got a 97%, which is very good, and I 
didn't miss any of the short answer questions, which I'd been a bit 
worried about. I then went to the Law Library for a short PPI with 
Jason Despain, the new Elder's Quorum president, who seems to 
hold me in high regard. I then rushed to Ricker for a delicious dinner. 
Later tonight we checked over the math PSet and I did some 
interview prep. 
In scripture study, I was veeeery sleepy. I read about Elisha receiving 
Elijah's mantle, which reminded me about President Smith's “double 
portion of the spirit”. I don't think a day goes by that I don't think 
about my mission. Actually, Elijah got pretty discouraged at times, 
lamenting how the people were idolatrous. The Lord responded by 
pointing out that there were still some knees that hadn't bowed to 
Baal. Implicit in this statement is a challenge to be one of those who 
chooses not to divert their attention to idols. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016 AT 11:32 PM 

Good day today. Busy, with 3 classes, institute, and 3 
extracurriculars. Still quite productive considering the time I had 
though. I squeezed in a math reading after 51 in the morning. In CS 
we discussed hashing and how to implement HashMaps. Chris was 

pretty funny, he did a demo with a sorting hat. .. in institute, we 
discussed stuff. Specifically, we compared the different accounts of 
the calls of the apostles from “come and see” to “come, follow me.” 
Bro Rassmussen also went off on this thing on the difference 
between discipline and disposition, which I didn't get for the longest 
time until I finally translated it to psych terms and realized that he 
was talking about the difference between compliance and 
commitment. Had a fun psych section about families with lots of cute 
pictures of Winston Churchill, I mean, babies. Speaking of Churchill, I 
was listening to the audiobook today and the end of his life was 
rather depressing as the British empire waned and his children 
wandered. After Psych, Brig and I worked in CS and actually got the 
entire unsorted array implementation of the priority queue done in 
just over an hour. We took a lot of code from Chris's implementation 
of a vector that he showed in class (the spec specifically said you 
could do that). I have a feeling that linked lists and heaps will be 
harder to implement. Went to an event talking about the psychology 
of recruiters from former recruiters, which was interesting if rather 
freaky. I think I was the only freshman there. Go me. After that I went 
to SAY and Habla, and Nicolas was actually there, yay! 
In scripture study, I thought about what it means to not “look back” 
after putting your hand to the plow of discipleship. Perhaps it relates 
to the way Lot's wife looked back, with longing and intention to 
return to a sinful state. That would indicate that we need to work on 
changing our hearts and desires more. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° RAIN 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016 AT 11:54 PM 

Good day. Had my CURIS interview in the morning, which went well, 
it was pretty informal. The one question I wasn't expecting was “find 
a criticism of they study”, I discussed the possibility of generalizing 
results outside the U.S. Had institute and talked about Job. Had my 
math midterm this evening. I thought it was hard. The problems 
didn't seem to match the types of ones I'd been doing on the 
practice exams, although they corresponded to the homework, 
which I also thought was hard… we'll see how it goes. I was relieved 
to be done with both of those stressful things and was looking 
forward to a restful weekend with no tests of concerts next week. 
Then I got an email from Juntos asking for a phone interview next 
week. Eeek to the freak!! There goes my rest… I suppose I should be 
excited that I'm progressing, and I really do like the idea of being a 
data intern with them, it's just the process of getting there that I 
don't particularly like. I should probably cognitively reappraise my 
situation. After all, I'm at Stanford, I don't think I'll have trouble 
finding a decent job, and my freshman summer work experience is 
hardly of earth-shattering importance. These interviews are just ways 
of getting useful experience. Anyway, after getting that email I went 
to chamber chorale practice, and upon return I responded and sent 
a thank you note to Danaë, who interviewed me this morning. 
In scripture study, I read from Joel, who discusses the second 
coming. He counseled to “rend your hearts and not your garments.” 
Instead of wringing your hands about how difficult your life is (guilty 
as charged), focus on what's in your control: changing your heart, 
desire, and intentions. That will get you closer to God who can take 
care of or ameliorate the other things. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2016 AT 12:45 AM 

Old day today. Good FF with Ashley Hoiland, a local LDS artist, 
although we had a fair amount of leftover pizza. Made progress on 
linked list pqueue as well as other homework. Played some XCOM. 
First mission, flawless. Second mission, I still haven't finished 
because my troops were getting slaughtered. We'll see how it ends 
up. 
I also finished “The Last Lion” after starting the first book in July. Sad 
day. I'll have to find something else to listen to… 
In scripture study, I read about Jonas, one of the more human 
prophets. I guess his story goes to show that you can never tell who 
will be receptive to the gospel. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2016 AT 12:09 AM 

Good day today. Productive and fun, couldn't ask for much more. 
Knocked out my math homework one one of the two chapters for 
reading, finished the psych reading, prepped for my Juntos 
interview, which I need to do more over the next few days (although 
I haven't gotten a response from them confirming the time yet). Had 
brunch at Lag with Parker and dinner at Lag with some of the other 
Mormon Crew. Also played some XCOM, finally getting past the 
difficult scenario with only two squadmates down. I unlocked some 
cool Mech and Spider armor. However, in a rather ironic bookend, 
the last enemy I encountered tonight was another instance of a 
heavily armored boss type, we'll see how this encounter goes… 
Today in scripture study I read a talk in Spanish called “A God of 
Miracles” by Sydney S. Reynold. The story was a typical slightly 
cheesy, “family had a baby with a lot of problems that miraculously 
survived” (not to demean that experience, which is extraordinarily 
trying, but it is a trope that is commonly used in church talks). For 
some reason, I just felt the Spirit while reading it. I guess it's because 
I've seen miracles in my life, so I definitely believe in a “God of 
miracles”. Perhaps the greatest miracles are not about fixing our 
problems but changing ourselves. After all, Christ atoned for us not 
so we could rewind and erase our past actions but rather so we can 
repent and become better in the future. I don't think it's an oversight 
that the plan of salvation is designed that way. I certainly have a lot 
to work on, but it's comforting to know that the God of miracles is 
on my side. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2016 AT 9:50 AM 

This week, I felt like I was more tempted by sexual thoughts than 
usual. I didn't give in to the temptation, but I did let those thoughts 
liner s few seconds too long before banishing them. As I've 
mentioned before, I want to keep even the fringes of my thoughts 
clean. Obviously staying busy and avoiding idleness will help me do 

that (and I don't anticipate that to be very difficult here .. I can also 
use each tempting thought as a prompt to pray or elevate my 
thoughts spiritually, according to President Quinn's letters. I feel like 
I had a good balance of work to rest this week, and I prioritized my 
studying and interview prep so I didn't play computer games until 
after that was over. I had fun playing computer games this weekend, 
although retrospectively I realize I actually did have time to go to 
Candide. I should balance my recreation activities as well, so I'll look 
for an interesting lecture or event for this week. I'm grateful that I did 
well on my Psych and CS midterms. If I continue studying for these 
classes as I have, I should be able to do well on the final. The Math 
midterm was hard, despite the fact that I'd taken 4-5 practice 
midterms in preparation. I did my best to study, so I'll just accept 
whatever the results are. I should begin some incremental review for 
the math final as well, maybe doing a practice problem a day for 
each of the concepts on the salad review. I'm glad that Peter and I 
could coordinate over home teaching, we'll work to get all of our 
people this month, and we should figure out their schedules to know 
what works best for them. On a totally random note, I need to set up 
my dentist's appointment. On another random note, I should figure 
out a date do go on in the near future (next two weeks so so). 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2016 AT 11:27 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Quite productive. Did the rest of my math 
reading, which took a long time, but I think I understood. Went to 
church a little early to home teach Evan Magnusson with Peter. 
Super good talks today. Jason Despain spoke about orphan 
syndrome, when we forget that we are children of a loving Heavenly 
Father. He referenced John 14:18, which in Russian (and Spanish) 
says “I will not leave you orphans.” Chloe Siebach talked about 
Markov chains and the “straight and narrow path” model. Basically, 
she said that sometimes we confuse the idea that we need to be 
intentional in following the path back to Heavenly Father with the 
idea that there's only one right “path” for us in life, and if we don't 
choose it we've messed up. Instead, she proposed the Markov chain 
model, in which each node of the chain presents us with a set of 
options, each of which yields a unique new set of options if we 
choose it. However, there are many good paths in each set. In fact, 
because of the power of the Atonement and repentance, any path 
we choose can be consecrated for our good if we turn to God. 
Finally, Eliza spoke about church being a place where we come to 
love more than just coming to learn. I should work on that, especially 
reaching outside my group of friends or the LDSSA. “For if ye love 
them which love you, what reward have ye? do not even the 
publicans the same?” -Matthew 5:46. Josh also gave a great third 
hour lesson on how we intellectually understand why we face trials, 
yet in their midst feel that the door to divine mercy is shut and the 
light dark. (CS Lewis and Mother Teresa, among others, have 
accounts of feeling this way). It reminds me of when Kent and I were 
learning to walk, which we did by standing between our parent's 
legs and mimicking their steps, with our arms held up to grasp their 
hands (or so I'm told). In order to learn to walk, our parents had to 
let go. In fact, when we first learned to walk independently we still 
held out arms up in the air. I think Heavenly Father is sometime like 
that with us. He knows that we can walk and He wants us to do so 
independently, but we still stretch out our arms and say “Where are 
you?” “Why aren't you helping me?” “I'm gonna fall!” See my 
Sunday School entry for today for a more compete discussion. 
Anyway, I also had LDSSA family dinner at Wilbur (underwhelming 
food, good company). I practiced interview stuff, wrote my Evernote 
and to Geepers, practiced chorale music, and implemented the 
change priority function for the linked list representation of pqueue. 
I already discussed a lot of spiritual learning. In scripture study, I was 
intrigued by how Jesus chose to touch a ceremonially unclean leper 
to heal him. I think that suggests something about overcoming social 
norms and prohibitions in serving our brothers and sisters. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016 AT 12:08 AM 

Good day today. Standard Math. Talked about navigating trees in 
CS. Went through all of Brahams in chorale and it went well. Talked 
about personality in Psych. Actually didn't have that much homework 
to do, so so did some psych reading. Had an IG for Boggle. Only 
got a check on style because we did arm's length recursion (having if 
statements in the recursive case rather than the recursive case) . 
oh well, I guess it's a learning experience. Afterwards I worked with 
Brig on PQueue. We actually finished up all the functionality for the 
Heap implementation in about two hours. I then went to Habla 
where we talked about “sharing our stories”. I'm not sure how much 
Nicolas got it… 
My Juntos interview is tomorrow at 3:00. Hope it's good! 
In scripture study, I learned that I should be leaven to uplift those 
around me. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016 AT 12:29 AM 

Good day today. Had my Juntos phone interview, went well. It was 
fairly casual. I talked with Kyle and Cristina about my interest in data 
science, Juntos, and social entrepreneurship. I also asked them 
questions about their data analysis processes and goals. It sounds 
like they have a lot of interesting projects. I just don't know exactly 
what kind of technical expertise they're looking for. They said I'd 
hear back about the next stage next week… We'll see. I also went to 
an experiment on perceiving faces where I rated groups as more or 
less diverse based on gender and race. Interesting stuff. It also 
fulfilled the last psych credit I needed. I had dinner with Kent at ZAP, 
and we laughed and joked and discussed the Stanford Review's 
petition to bring back a mandatory Western Civilization component 
to undergrad education (which has ignited quite a firestorm). I also 
went to a CS plus social good mixer and talked to some 
entrepreneurs. It was a little start-up-y for me, but I did meet 
someone who's randomly friends with the founder of Juntos. I 
worked with Brig and we turned in our CS assignment after doing a 
fair amount of testing. (I made a big Excel sheet of things to check). 
Tonight, I played XCOM as a reward for my hard work. I had a 
flawless mission, which is surprising because it was a storyline 
mission and involved some pretty hard enemies. Combination of 
luck and skill, I guess. And sniper rifles. 
In scripture study, I read my Patriarchial blessing. I pondered the 
phrase promising me joy and satisfaction in my mission experience. I 
was recently happy, but it was hard and I was also homesick. I 
actually think a lot of my joy and satisfaction in my mission 
experience has come afterward as I've been able to look back with 
integrity on my service and gratitude for the skills I learned and 
experiences I had. That satisfaction has also come as I've been able 
to continue serving. So, sometimes blessings don't come in the time 
or way you expect. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016 AT 11:52 PM 

Good day today. Had math in the morning. Fasted this morning and 
afternoon for the ward missionary 40 day fast. Was able to make 
good progress in math, CS, and Psych. Had chorale rehearsal tonight 
a day early, which is good since Kent and I are having dinner with 
Padre tomorrow night. (They're coming for parent's weekend.) Had 
Habla tonight with Nicolas and helped him write some sentences 
and learn about the verb “to be.” Played a little bit of XCOM and 
continued to fight the good fight against the aliens. 
In scripture study, I read more of Matthew and thought about lessons 
to draw from Peter trying to walk on the water. I thought it was 
almost counterintuitive that he did well at first but then began to 
sink. If you see that you can walk on water, wouldn't that bolster your 
faith? I think we can draw from this the lesson of the need for 
spiritual staying power. It's not enough to simply start with good 
intentions. You have to continue exerting the effort to be a disciple 
every day, and repent and correct your mistakes when they occur. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016 AT 12:11 AM 

Good day today. Fairly laid back. Got my math test back (or rather, it 
was posted online) this morning, and I found out that I got a 
69.5/76, which was way better than I thought I'd did (the median 
was 52). That was definitely a big blessing, and more than I could 
have done on my own. (There was one true/false section that I was 
seriously unsure on, yet I got them all right!) Had lunch at TAP, math 
and CS sections. Requested my X-Rays for my dentist's appointment 
tomorrow, but need to send in a form. I was actually in so what of a 
homework lull today, but I worked on some Psych reading and R&W 
part 4. I also played too much XCOM, although I got all the way to 
the last mission, which is exciting (I was ironically able to do the 
penultimate mission just be sneaking around and without firing a 
shot.) The high point of today was definitely having dinner with Kent 
and Dad at Terún, an Italian place in Palo Alto. It was basically our 
first boy's night out in four or five years. We talked about gravity 
waves, public key encryption, and quantum computers. I think Madre 
was glad she wasn't there. 
In scripture study, I read more in Matthew. I thought the contrast 
between Peter confessing the Christ and receiving the keys of the 
kingdom and being sharply rebuked in the same chapter was 
interesting. I guess it shows that you're always vulnerable, and you're 
always learning. Speaking of which, I had some problems with sexual 
thoughts today. Maybe it's a play/work balance thing, so I should 
make sure to manage that well. Excited for tomorrow! 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016 AT 9:04 PM 

Good day today. Busy. Went to Math in the morning, then went 
straight to Jeff Pfeffer's panel on “Women in Power”, where mom 
and two other women spoke. I had to leave early to catch CS lecture 
on graphs before rushing off to Friday forum where mom spoke 
about being mindfully part of organizations. Then I rushed to psych, 
had a dentist's appointment, and enjoyed dinner at Evvia's with the 
family. 
In scripture study, learned from Hosea that we often take the very 
time, talents, and resources that God has blessed us with and use 
them to worship idols. I should reflect on idols in my life and how to 
avoid them. 

100 EL CAMINO REAL, MENLO PARK, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2016 AT 12:28 AM 


Good day today. Woke up early to have breakfast with the family at 
Brioche, a restaurant in Palo Alto where I got a nice sausage 
scramble. I don't know if it's just because I got up early or for some 
other reason, but I didn't feel in top form all day. In fact, I should 
sleep soon. I then did some math homework and worked with Brig 
on CS, where we ran into a nasty segmentation fault bug. After that, 
saw a mini performance of Volta, Kentre's vocal jazz group, at a ZAP. 
We then wandered over to Cantor where we gazed at modern art for 
a while, then went briefly to the cactus garden, which I much 
preferred. Had a lovely dinner at Joya's, which is an old standby. 
After that, Kent bounced to go see Swan Lake and I went to hang at 
the hotel with Madre and Padre. Hang meaning madre and I did 
work while Padre read. I don't really get why I was there, since we 
didn't have much interaction, although padre did help me fix the seg 
fault and pontificated on my math homework. Then he dropped me 
off at my dorm where I whaled for a while. I also finished XCOM 2. 
Final victory against the aliens, huzzah! I don't know why spending 
time with my family today should be so correlated with negative 
emotion that I didn't feel when doing my homework. Maybe I felt 
pressured to do thing sI didn't want to. Maybe I felt pressed by my 
homework, anyway it's late and so have a headache. Adios. 
In scripture study, I ponders the idols in my life (like computer 
games), and ways to not worship them. (Like not play them until 
finals are over). 

561–581 LOS ARBOLES AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2016 AT 10:11 AM 

This week was good, but I don't think I enjoyed parent's weekend as 
much as I might have. I think I was stressed by the amount of work I 
have to do, and I really couldn't have gotten much ahead because 
the math homework and readings weren't posted until Friday and 
Brig and I didn't meet for CS until Saturday. It seemed kind of 
pointless to hang with Mom and Dad in their hotel room when all we 
did was work and read. Maybe I'm just too organized and concerned 
about getting my work done and prepping for this upcoming 
concert. I finished XCOM this week, although I probably played it a 
tad too much. However, this is a good stopping point for me to not 
play any computer games until after my finals are done, which will 
give me more time to study and prep. I still had some tempting 
sexual thoughts this week, so I will work to keep those out of my 
mind. Focusing on work while preserving the integrity of scripture 
study and prayer will be helpful. I also want to do more service, in 
addition to home teaching. I'll try to take advantage of any service 
opportunities I get this week. As for work/life balance, I did a lot of 
recreational stuff with my family this week as well as playing and 
going to the CS plus Social good mixer, so I think there was a decent 
balance. I don't plan on doing too much this coming week given the 
concert, but I'll think about opportunities. I'm worried about Kent. 
He seems disaffected with the church and is (logically) in a media 
echo chamber of like-minded people who reinforce that belief. He is 
not doing things that would help him see/feel the positive side of 
the gospel, like attending church. For me, the reason I stay is 
because the gospel “works” for me. It's hard for the gospel to 
“work” for you though if you distance yourself from it…. I just don't 
know how to help him. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2016 AT 10:47 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Slept in 30 minutes, which was nice and 
necessary. Went to church a bit early to get home taught with Peter 
by Andrew and Connor. I committed to seek more service 
opportunities in order to keep my eyes on eternal goals and not 
short term stressors. For reasons I don't fully understand, I was rather 
tired in sacrament meeting today. I did get to pass the sacrament, 
which was nice. I haven't done that I a long time. It made me want to 
think about being worthy to do that more, so I am always worthy to 
do so. Had dinner with the LDSSA at Ricker, and a lot of people 
came, which was nice. I actually made lots of progress on my 
homework and was able to get caught up on everything. That's 
good because I'm basically bloomed solid tomorrow between 
classes, rehearsal, working with Brig on CS, a meeting with Steven, 
seeing a reading of the play “Proof” for Psych, and Habla. Should be 
fun. 
In scripture study, I read the new First Presidency Message. It was 
about being a teacher and a learner in the way that Christ was. I 
thought about how homework is actually of much shorter term 
importance than building relationships, and I should prioritize the 
latter more than I am currently doing. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES 

March 2016 

TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2016 AT 12:06 AM 

Good day today. Ran through all of Brahams in chorale rehearsal, 
which went well. I got an email from Twitter saying “nice to talk with 
you but we aren't advancing you in the interview process.” That's 
strange since I only sent out an application and never interviewed. I 
talked with Steven (my TF) about my research and writing project for 
psych and he had really positive feedback. So positive, in fact, that 
he said he'd like to refer me for research in a Psych lab at the end of 
quarter! Yay! I'd definitely be happy doing that over the summer and 
hopefully sharpening my coding skills as well. Speaking of which, 
Brig and I finished up Huffman today and everything seems to be in 
working order. This evening, I went to see a reading of the play 
“Proof” for Psych. It's about Schizophrenia and mathematics. The 
main character is the daughter of a brilliant yet schizophrenic 
professor who recently died, and she's worried about developing his 
condition. She talks with her dead father at the beginning of the 
show, but you never know whether or not she's really schizophrenic. 
Good stuff. I also tutored Nicolas in Habla on the word “to be”. I am 
still searching for an audiobook to listen to. Maybe “Influence”… 
In scripture study, I was very tired, but I read in Micah. I was 
interested by the injunction to walk humbly with God, not after or 
before Him. I think that implies a partnership and level of intimacy 
that we should take more seriously. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2016 AT 11:06 PM 

Good day today. Had Psych section in the morning where we 
discussed mental disorders, topped off by a segment of “The 
Onion” about the development of depressant drugs to treat overly 
chipper people. Had a regular math section and good institute 
discussion of Job and why he threw a temper tantrum when Ninevah 
wasn't destroyed. (Perhaps he thoughts his whole ordeal had been 
for naught and that God would have saved the city anyway.) Had a 
lovely lunch at FloMo, then got to work. I didn't have any events 
tonight (I wanted to go to a talk but the tickets were sold out) and 
not too much assigned homework, so I went ahead and did some 
final exam prep, going over psych notes, Math 51's part 1 review 
sheet, and CS section problems. Pointers, pointers everywhere! I 
also read a bit of time and “The Informant” on Archer Daniels 
Midland's price-fixing scheme. I also downloaded a new audiobook 
(courtesy of BOTM), called “influence”, by Robert Cialdini. It was 
recommended by Bridgette in Pscyh class, therefore it must be 
good, based on the “experts are always right” heuristic. It actually is 
quite engaging. Tomorrow's lots of rehearsal. 
In scripture study, I read a talk by Elder Oaks on miracles. It seems 
that actively remembering and appropriately recounting miracles are 
one way to make their spiritual impact “stick”, so they become part 
of us. 

561–581 LOS ARBOLES AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2016 AT 12:26 AM 

Good day today. I can't believe it's already Wednesday (Thursday, 
technically). Had math, discussed the A* search method in CS, made 
the mistake of putting way too much sririacha on my subway 
sandwich. Cool guest lecturer in psych (James Gross, co-author of 
our textbook, who sometimes teaches psych 1). Discussed treatment 
of psychological disorders. Submitted Huffman and my math 
homework. Took a short nap due to tiredness. Had dress rehearsal in 
Bing Concert Hall for chorale. It's totally gorgeous. Do need to 
review a few pieces though. Had last Habla of the quarter, some 
workers shared their stories relating to the labor negotiations. I then 
chatted with some of the other tutors about Donald Trump and ate 
cake. Listened to a Radiolab segment on why we're altruistic. 
Apparently the best evolutionary algorithm is a “generous tit for tat” 
strategy that reciprocates but is sometimes spontaneously good (to 
break the echo cycles of retaliation). 
In scripture study, I learned that's mighty change of heart is a miracle 
that, just like others, cannot be forced, but can be fostered by faith 
and he right circumstances. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2016 AT 11:35 PM 

Good day today. Had math section in the morning, institute, and CS 
section, where we talked about searching. Home taught Erica Evans 
with Peter (isn't it weird that our parents were at Stanford together 
and now we are?). Had a good chorale rehearsal. Got partway 
through a math practice test and it didn't seem too bad. Read more 
of “The Informant.” Time to sleep. 
In scripture study, I reviewed the home teaching lesson. I want to 
work on listening better during my prayers and scripture study. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, MARCH 5, 2016 AT 12:54 AM 

Old day today. Good Friday Forum by Kent Cattani, although it was 
a bit rambly. Interesting lecture on kindness in psych. Good progress 
on Trailblazer for CS, as well as CS and Math practice. Read some 
more of the informant. 
In scripture study, I learned that even if we're righteous reformers 
like Hezekiah, we still face threats and disappointments. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MARCH 6, 2016 AT 12:17 AM 

Good day today. I feel like I worked so long on my math homework 
today and yet made so little progress. Oh well. Así es. It rained at 
varying levels of intensity throughout the day, so I became varying 
levels of soaked running my various errands. Pretty normal day in the 
morning, early afternoon, Wilbur brunch, family call, homework. It 
started raining harder the closer it got to the call time for the 
Chamber Chorale concert, but thankfully, Kent graciously offered to 
give me a ride to the concert and back, so I avoided having to 
transport my tux in a hermetically sealed plastic bag via bicycle to 
Bing. The concert went well. My voice was feeling wonky when we 
warmed up, and I feel like I didn't have my low notes well during 
most of the concert (which was a bummer on “Angus Dei”, which 
felt generally wonky). However, I felt really good on my middle 
range, and I think my performance on the Brahams and Von 
Kampen's “The Swing” were personal bests. We're doing Angus Dei 
again with St. John's, so I have a chance to perfect it then. After the 
concert, Kent came over to FroSoCo and hung out at my dorm while 
we worked for a while. Lizzie is coming to church tomorrow, and I 
asked him if he wanted to come to meet her/ give her a ride back 
after sacrament meeting, but he said “I'm taking a sabbatical from 
church right now.” and also cited that he couldn't come because of a 
Volta rehearsal. Interesting. In the family call, he mentioned a quote 
from Elder Bed at at a fireside that “there are no homosexuals in the 
church”. I think the idea was “don't define your identity as 
"Homosexual Mormon”, define yourself as a child of God. It does 
come out sounding rough though. It seems like every week on the 
family call we devote a fair amount of time to discussing something 
related to LGBTQ issues and the church. It just reminds me of a 
piece of advice Kent wrote to me for my mission while he was on his 
mission. “If you look for the bad, you will find it. If you look for the 
good, you will be a lot happier.” I wonder if looking for the bad in 
the church will really make Kent happy in the long run. I just don't 
know how to best help him. 
In scripture study, I reflected a little on Alma 5, which I hope to 
continue either tomorrow or Monday. It actually made me feel 
better; that I really am trying to follow the path of discipleship, even 
though I make mistakes. I was to have the image of God in my 
countenance more. I think the key lies in serving others, especially 
perceiving and fulfilling unsolicited needs. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° RAIN 

SUNDAY, MARCH 6, 2016 AT 11:07 AM 

This week was good, I think. I kept my commitment not to play 
computer games, although I read “TIME” and my book for a while. 
This coming week, I'll probably cut back even on that so I can 
prioritize my studying for finals. I tried to go out for several activities 
but they got booked or rescheduled, but at least I made the effort. I 
want to go to FHE this week, since I've missed it the past few weeks. 
I'm glad that I signed up for the SALA thing so I can do a bit of 
service this week. I feel like I did a better job of keeping my thoughts 
clean this week, which is good, although it's still something I'm 
fasting for today. I'm glad that Lizzie is coming to church with me 
and hope she has a good experience, although fast Sunday can 
sometimes be a little wonky. I will bear my testimony if the Spirit 
prompts me to do so. I also need to follow up with Emmanuel and 
Robert on church, and see if I can reach out to Riley somehow. I did 
overhear him talking about the church in an apparently negative 
light as he walked down the hall this week. He's gay, so I can 
imagine why he'd be disaffected with the church. I'm not sure what 
to do to reach out to him best. I'll have to seek revelation on that. 
Scripture study and prayer this week were fair. I should make sure 
that I don't rush my prayers, even if it means ending a pre-sleep 
activity five minutes early so so can get a good prayer in. Despite all 
my studying this week, I'll try to appropriately spend time with 
friends as well. Gotta keep that balance. Oh yes, and we should 
keep on top of home teaching. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MARCH 6, 2016 AT 11:15 PM 

A good fast Sunday today. Lizzie came with me to church. I think she 
enjoyed it. She could only stay for sacrament meeting, but she sent 
me a nice text afterwards thanking me for it. I probably could have 
done a better job explaining about the sacrament. After all, singing 
about how great it is that somebody died is probably pretty weird 
without context. Maybe next time I invite someone I'll come over 510 
minutes early to give them a run down on the service and 
symbols. Hopefully I get a chance to follow up sometime this week, 
or I'll just make the chance and stop by her room on study break. It 
was actually an excellent fast and testimony meeting this week, lots 
of people came up and bore moving testimonies. Josh Wisenat (I'm 
misspelling his last name), another Mormon freshman, talked about 
how he didn't believe that the church was true when he came to 
Stanford, but his perspective changed, in part because of the 
moving service of members of the LDSSA to him (he shared several 
specific stories). It made me want to be better at reaching out to 
others and not pass them by “like ships in the night.” After church 
we had family dinner at Lag (bleah! Lag!) and then I worked on 
homework. I continued to grind away at the math homework, and I 
finished a second practice final for Math. I also was able to get more 
CS practice with linked lists as well as revise the Trailblazer code a 
bit. I still don't know why Dijkstra's sometimes gives a different path 
than the JAR… 
In scripture study, I read a talk by President Packer on priesthood 
power, which we subsequently discussed in Elder's quorum. Why 
don't women have the priesthood? I don't know, but I'm most 
convinced by Grandpa Gordon's quote that if the women had the 

priesthood, the men wouldn't do any work in the church. .. It was 

interesting that Elder Packer discussed how the family structure 
trumps even the apostolic structure. Apostles defer to the father in 
giving blessings within the family. (Why not the mother if the father is 
absent? Well, Elder Packer did come from a very different time. He's 
basically one step from Red Rock, so I have to give him some credit.) 
On a more spiritual note, if I give a choose-your-own topic talk in 
church, I want it to be on “God moves in a mysterious way.” 
I hope I didn't jinx myself by saying that. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° RAIN 

MONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016 AT 11:55 PM 

Good day today. Had Math. Akshay cut his hair super short, which 
perhaps made me pay more attention, because I felt like I got the 
material well. (Either the hair or my NASA shirt.) Unfortunately, the 
same was not true for my math homework, and it took me hours to 
slog to the end, although I did get to the end (after skipping three 
problems). My brakes are misaligned on my bike because part of the 
front braking mechanism broke, so I went to the bike shop today and 
they said I could come back tomorrow morning to get a 
replacement. We discussed HTML and JavaScript in CS, and Chris 
showed us how to make some simple webpages. Got new music for 
chorale. We have a folk piece called “The Road Home” that I really 
like. In Pscyh, Alicia Crum discussed health psychology, and how 
much mindset matters (Patents who knew they were given morphine 
showed a much greater pain reduction than those who received the 
same dose via computer and didn't know they were getting it. 
Additionally, the biggest predictor for back pain is not herniated 
disks but rather fear of back pain… Besides study, I went to FHE, and 
it was nice to get out and laugh with people playing “Fruit Basket” 
where someone in the middle says a trait and everyone who has that 
trait has to stand up and find a new seat of get stuck in the middle. I 
opted to skip the midnight breakfast, as sleeps trumpets food right 
now. 
In scripture study, I finished reading Alma 5 and read some scriptures 
on Christ being the Messiah for institute. I think I rushed a little and 
probably could have gone slower to get more out of it. A theme that 
recurred between Alma 5 and Cesar's devotional tonight was being 
“separate ” from evil. That's a difficult proposition, given that we live 
in a fallen world. But, I think it can be done, and it requires engaging 
smartly with the world rather than withdrawing from it. I think as we 
bring good into our surroundings, it is easier for us to be good 
ourselves. As I'm learning listening to “Influence”, behavior 
determines what we believe as much as belief informs behavior. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016 AT 12:37 AM 

Good day today. Busy. Got the brakes on my bike repaired in the 
morning, so I had to walk until I got my bike back at 4:00. Discussed 
integrative essay in psych. Gotta review for that. Some stuff on 
Lagrange multipliers clicked for me in section, so I was able to solve 
some of the homework problems I'd been stuck on. Same thing for 
Trailblazer , overcame the bugs we had. Now we just need to 
optimize Kruskal's. Had lunch at TAP with Chloe, Eric, and John 
Arnell. Home taught Brandon with Peter. I like his positive attitude. 
Practiced Chicester Psalms with the orchestra at Bing. I need to 
solidify the rhythm in part 2. Interviewed a worker in Spanish for the 
Student and Labor Alliance about his life and work experience. I feel 
like I alternately made breakthroughs today and banged my head 
against the same problems over and over. Good thing I have a 
strong head. 
In scripture reading, I was tired, so I'll talk about institute. Bro. 
Johnson brought up how the siege of Jerusalem by Sennacherib and 
the mocking of the Jews by his stewards is analogous to our lives 
today when we face a spiritual siege on “the holy city” with many of 
the same psychological tactics. Similarly, we must trust in the lord for 
deliverance. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016 AT 11:56 PM 

Good day today. I will start out by writing three things I'm grateful 
for, because in psych today, we discussed happiness and that was a 
tip they gave us. In fact, basically all the tips were “Be Mormon”. Be 
grateful, do service for others, exercise and take care of your health. 
So, I guess I'm grateful that my religion already teaches me so many 
good ways to be happier (if only I could follow them better). I'm also 
grateful that I had a lot of time to study today. I made big progress 
on the Math 51 review topics list, finished my third math practice 
exam, did a practice CS problem, read Psych notes, and finally, 
finally got the right answer (I hope) on my last homework problem 
for math so I could turn it in. So such luck on cracking the data 
structure conundrum for trailblazer, but Brig and I should be able to 
finish it up tomorrow. Finally, I am grateful for the cool light show in 
CS today. We had a group that builds and programs these LED 
cubes that you can use in light shows and manipulate like a DJ. Chris 
wrote some programs that ran on them. Pretty cool. There was also 
ice cream at dinner. And Krispy Creme donuts in the dorm. Angela 
was right about the abundance of junk food during dead week. If 
they don't kill you with the schoolwork, they'll get ya with the 
coronary. On that cheerful note, sleep tight. Don't let the coronary 
heart failure bite. 
In scripture study, Jerusalem fell to Babylon. Continuing with the 
metaphor of the holy city as representing our own spirituality, I think 
it's important to understand why it was overtaken by Babylon (the 
world.) The immediate cause was that the people rebelled both 
against Babylon and God. Basically, they didn't have the Lord's 
protection. Hezekiah was actually caught trying to flee the city, 
indicating the danger of leaving the moral high ground even when it 
feels uncomfortable to be there. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016 AT 12:26 AM 

Good day. Progress was made. Last Math section. Good review. Had 
IG with Charissa. Went fairly well. Some style issues. Finally finished 
Trailblazer and knocked out Kruskal's after staring it down for two 
hours. Heavenly Father definitely answered my prayers on that one. 
Took a practice CS final, which was rough. It was written by Eric 
Roberts though, so I don't know if Chris's will be similar or different. 
Sometimes it was unclear what the problem was actually requiring. 
One seemed to basically ask you to implement most of the code for 
a HashMap. It was much tougher than the section problems that I've 
done. There are some curated CS problems that I want to work on 
tomorrow. As for math, it's sometime hard for me to tell if I don't 
know something because of the curriculum change or if I don't know 
if because I need to study more. Anyway, enough about boring 
exam review stuff. I had lunch with Connor, Andrew, and Brickelle 
after institute today, which was fun. I'm grateful for the unexpected 
boost in my day. Had chorale rehearsal where we went through 
some tricky pieces, including a weird double choir one. More 
practice for me. 
In scripture study, I read about Assyria and Babylonia in the Bible 
dictionary and read some of Matthew. I felt like I had really good 
flow today and hardly noticed the time passing, which was good. I'm 
grateful that I was able to feel that today. Nice and relaxing start to 
the day. I learned that God allows evil to happen because opposition 
is necessary for all things, but that doesn't stop Him from punishing 
the evildoers (Matthew 18:7). 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, MARCH 12, 2016 AT 12:38 AM 

I'm waking up early tomorrow to fit in more study time, so I'll keep 
this short, if not sweet. But of a frustrating day today. I still don't feel 
ready for my CS final as I struggled through another practice exam. I 
did a Math practice exam which was frustratingly hard as well, 
although I ended up being able to complete most of the problems. 
Friday Forum was good, there was a ton of food and Bro 
Rassmussen brought spaghetti and sundaes, in addition to what I 
had from CoHo. I'm grateful for that. And for the fact that Scotty 
helped me carry the food. Otherwise it would have been hard to get 
it all. Last day of classes. Tear. I'd been planning on going to this 
mysterious study break with the LDSSA that had been hyped for the 
past week or so, but then Kent told me he had his Volta concert 
tonight at the same time. I hadn't been planning on going to the 
concert, since I'd already seen them perform it on parent's weekend, 

but he insisted. I think I missed out on a really fun LDSSA activity. . 
I also find it inconvenient that stake conference and daylight savings 
time converge on the two days before my finals. Ungh, better get to 
bed so I have more time and energy to study tomorrow. 
In scripture study, I read in Matthew. No flow like yesterday. Big idea 
was that commandments are flexible adaptations of principles for 
our time rather than doctrine. Commandments are rooted in 
doctrine, but they change, while doctrine doesn't. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° SHOWERS NEARBY 

SUNDAY, MARCH 13, 2016 AT 12:45 AM 

Just finished a three hour practice final for CS, so I'll be brief. (It was 
okay, at least I could answer all the problems, although it wasn't 
pretty). Studied almost all day. Family call at 1:30. Went to Math 51 
review session, feeling alright about it. Had diner at TAP. Went to 
Stake Conference. I didn't appreciate the time sink, but it was very 
good. Almost every talk stood out in some positive way. I'm grateful 
that I went and that I could get a ride. Even talking to my friends in 
the car was fun and relaxing. 
I was struck by the point that loving God is kind of pointless if I don't 
love my brothers and sisters. I need to work on that. And more than 
just my friends. I always think of the scripture, “For if ye love them 
which love you, what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the 
same?” Matthew 5:46. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° LIGHT RAIN 

SUNDAY, MARCH 13, 2016 AT 9:30 AM 

This week involved a lot of study. I did get out in a few ways. I was 
able to serve by doing SALA interviews. I (reluctantly) supported 
Kent at his concert. I want to stake conference. (I was sorely tempted 
to stay home from the latter and study, but I'm glad that I went.) I 
was also able to get Friday Forum organized (although I need to talk 
to Angela about next quarter). It's crunch time with my exams, and 
I'm honestly a little worried about CS, but if I've done my best to 
study, then I'll accept whatever happens. After that, I look forward to 
relaxing, although it honestly won't be a very long vacation. I'll make 
sure to stay on top of things like scripture study, prayer, getting a 
research position, deciding on my classes, and FriFo over the break. 
I still have felt some temptation toward foul language or 
inappropriate thoughts this week, which is natural. I just need to take 
advantage of those opportunities to turn to God for strength, so 
they actually become chances to enhance my spirituality. Finally, I 
should make sure to reach out to family, friends, and others in love 
and support more, instead of passing as a “ship in the night.” 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° RAIN 

SUNDAY, MARCH 13, 2016 AT 11:12 PM 

Good Sabbath. It's bedtime, so I'll be brief. Stake conference was 
good, although I didn't like it as much as last night. Pretty 
conventional talks on building faith and the like. Home taught Jared 
afterward and had a good lesson in helping those we teaching by 
believing in them and reaching out to them in empathy. I should 
work on that more. Did more study, mostly CS, a bit of math and 
psych. Tomorrow is the judgement day. I've done my best to 
prepare. I hope Heavenly Father blesses me for my efforts. 
In scripture study, I learned that I shouldn't “pay tithes of mint and 
cumin and neglect the weighted matters of the law; justice, mercy 
and faith.” Matthew 23:23. In other words, I shouldn't get so 
wrapped up in the details of studying for exams or food for Friday 
forum or home teaching completion that I neglect actually loving 
and serving others. Catherine came by today and gave me a pack of 
gum with a message to “stick with it” and a reference to Phillipians 

4:13. I was really touched that she'd take her own time out of a busy 
finals week to go around and serve people, even in a small way like 
that. That's what it means to not neglect the weightier matters, our 
own brothers and sisters. 
222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° CLOUDY 

MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016 AT 11:15 PM 

The great and dreadful day has passed. Actually, the CS exam went 
pretty great and the Math 51 final wasn't too dreadful. (I certainly felt 
better than the people who said, “I wanted to give up after the first 
40 minutes.”) I felt like CS was easier than a lot of the practice tests 
I'd taken (I finished the main thing an hour early), and I was even 
able to get a good attempt in on the challenge problem. Math went 
alright. There were maybe two us parts of problems that I couldn't 
answer and a few more that I wasn't sure about. There was more on 
Eigenvalues than I'd expected and I feel like there were fewer classic 
constrained maximization problems than the practice exams. No 
matter. I hope the curve will cushion me, and I have accrued a good 
lead through the first two midterms… 
I had a panini from Basil's for lunch, it was yummy. Besides that, I 
derped around, studied, and did a practice essay for Psych. I think 
my speed essay writing skills kicked in nicely (just like the good old 
days of Euro FRQs). That and some help from Heavenly Father. I 
definitely felt inspired in my exams today, which was a direct answer 
to my rather importuning prayers. Now, I should get a good night's 
sleep in preparation for tomorrow. G'night. 
In scripture study, I read in Matthew about THE END OF THE 
WORLD, clearly applicable to finals week. I thought about why it's 
“necessary” that wars and tribulations and bad stuff happen before 
the second coming. I think partly it's that God is a “fourth watch” 
God, who will stretch us to our maximum before intervening. He 
doesn't want to see us suffer, but He does want our growth, and he 
understands that that process can sometimes be painful, but the 
benefits are worth the cost. Kind of like studying for finals. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016 AT 2:33 AM 


If you're wondering why I'm writing this at such an ungodly hour of 
the morning, it's because I'm on the red eye to Detroit and am 
about 20 minutes from landing. But, I'm getting ahead of myself. It 
was a great day today. My day actually started early when I 
inexplicably woke up at 4:00 am and couldn't go back to sleep for 
two hours. In fact, I'm grateful that I did, because I realized that I'd 
accidentally turned off my alarm the previous morning! I turned it 
back on and was able to catch an hour of sleep before waking up for 
a beautiful morning run around lake Lag. I took my psych final in the 
morning, which I hadn't prepared for nearly as intensely as my other 
two finals. However, I did do a practice essay with a prompt I 
randomly chose yesterday (I literally used the random number 
generator on my calculator, which told me “10” about three times in 
a row. On the actual final, there were two options for the essay 
question, and one of them was exactly the same as the one I'd 
practiced for! That was definitely a big blessing. After taking care of 
business like returning textbooks, doing course evals, and packing, I 
spent some time working on a little coding project that I'd thought 
up during my sleepless two hours in the morning (which were 
apparently very productive). It's a little game theory simulator where 
the user can enter a matrix and simulate games between different 
strategies. Right now I've coded up the UI and some simple 
strategies like tit-for-tat and grim trigger, although I should still code 
in awareness off the opponent's declared next move, and right now 
it just works for infinite Cournot games. I'd like to do some sort of 
evolutionary algorithm, but I haven't gotten there yet. Anyway, as a 
fun end of quarter activity/ home teaching, Brickelle, Peter, and I 
biked into Palo Alto to have a snack at CREAM this evening, which 
was quite fun. Definitely something I'd want to do again some time. 
Finally, Kent took me to the airport, where my flight departed at 

10:25 and I've been in a state of zonked-out semi-awareness ever 
since. 
I actually had a really cool experience relating to scripture study. I 
read Matthew 25 about “Inasmuch as ye have done it into one of the 
least of these, my brethren, ye have done it into me.” I kind of 
ended a little bummed out thinking that I don't do that much to 
administer to those in need, then I went to breakfast. The person in 
front of me in line, who I know peripherally, couldn't scan in because 
he didn't have his meal card. Remembering that I had one unused 
guest meal for the quarter, I scanned him in as my guest. It was a 
simple and immediate answer to my prayers to apply what I read, 
and I'm grateful that Heavenly Father gave it to me. 
We literally just touched down. Welcome home. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016 AT 10:51 PM 

Good day today. Slept in to recover from flight. Went to Songbird 
Cafe for lunch. Saw “Zootopia, which I really liked, more than 
Frozen. It did a great job at tackling race relations through the 
metaphor of animals. Did some work on my Game Theory 
programming project and got it to pass functions as arguments. Yay! 
Played XCOM. 
In scripture study, read about Christ in Gethsemane. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 49° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 AT 10:18 PM 

Good day. Threw up in the morningand was sick but got better. Played 
and rested. 

Read of Christ's crucifixion in scripture study 

5001 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 35° CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, MARCH 19, 2016 AT 9:20 PM 

Alright day today. Madre woke me up at 10:30, I went down and had 
breakfast, then wrote the list to go to the store. After exercise and 
showering, we went to lunch at Texas Roadhouse, which was alright. 
We then got groceries at Plum Market, and after getting back, 
embarked on a cooking odyssey. We worked on whoopie pies, hot 
cross buns, twice-baked mashed potatoes, asparagus, and berries. 
With some minor breaks, I worked for around 6 hours. We didn't 
have dinner until 9:30. Madre and padre bickered about inane things 
like taking out the trash. We finished dinner and scripture study 
around 10:30. Needless to say, working for the Madre all day wasn't 
exactly what I'd pictures doing over break. At least it was something 
different than computer games… Padre and I watched “Gravity”, 
which I thought was sub-par. Poor science, and the main character is 
fairly incompetent. She basically flails around, hits random buttons, 
and miraculously survives. It was nothing compared to Apollo 13, 
which is such a more inspiring (and realistic) story. 
In scripture study, I read about the resurrection and the danger of 
failing to change your beliefs out of fear of embarrassment, as the 
Pharisees did. 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 31° CLEAR 

SUNDAY, MARCH 20, 2016 AT 9:48 AM 

This week had some spiritual ups and downs. I felt really guided and 
helped on my final exams, down to selecting topics to study that 
actually appeared on the tests! I also was able to apply some of what 
I was learning in scripture study by giving my guest meal to Robert 
or doing home teaching with Brickelle. After I got back for break, I 
didn't do a good job at doing scripture reading, although I usually 
squeezed it in at night. This coming week, I'll work to set aside time 
for it in the morning as much as possible. I probably played too 
much computer games, although part of that came from being sick 
for a day. I also was not amused with working most of the day 
Saturday. This upcoming week, as should make sure that my 
activities are diverse. That shouldn't be too hard, given that we're 
going to New York and the temple and the economic dinner group. 
On the to-do list, I should practice my chorale music, decide 
whether or not I'll be taking 107 or look for alternative classes, follow 
up with Steven about research, and coordinate with Angela for 
Friday Forum. I should also renew my efforts to be grateful in my 
journal and in life in general. Give several prayers of gratitude this 
week. Sometimes I get discouraged by how long the periods of work 
I have are compared to the length of my breaks. I think being 
grateful will help with that. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 37° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, MARCH 20, 2016 AT 7:27 PM 

Good Sabbath today. I unfortunately fell asleep during sacrament 
meeting, presumably because it was at 9:00 am. The talks were on 
happiness though. We discussed not being deceived by Satan in 
Sunday School and read Madre's favorite scripture in 2 Nephi 26:23


25. It just makes me wonder how we're not “commanding people to 
depart out of our synagogues” (v 26) when gay couples who attend 
church must receive a disciplinary counsel and their children can't be 
baptized until they're 18 and renounce gay marriage. We discussed 
the Atonement in priesthood and I talked about hedonic adaptation 
and why having everything good all the time would not make us 
happy, but rather a mix of good and challenging experiences does, 
and the Atonement is there for us when we are in pain or when we 
fail. After church, Madre had an event, so padre and I had a light 
lunch and a nap. We then finished preparing for an early Easter 
dinner of lamb, asparagus, twice-baked potatoes, and the desserts 
we prepared yesterday. I'm not sure about the return on investment, 
but at least they tasted good. I'm grateful that we had such good 
food. Many don't. This evening we went to an Easter Sing event at 
church, which was fun and had and LDS choir and a Methodist bell 
choir, solo and small group performances, as well as some 
congregational hymns (including the Hallelujah chorus). It was a nice 
spiritual event and a reminder of why we celebrate Easter. I'm 
grateful for the good music. Padre and I topped off the night with a 
game of pandemic, which we won. I'm grateful that he was willing to 
play with me. 
In scripture study as a family, we read about Peter attempting to walk 
on water. I've always wondered why he started to waver only after 
he'd seen that he could already do it. One thought that came to me 
was that perhaps Peter had progressed far enough that he was no 
longer in reach of the boat. There was no longer an easy fallback for 
him if this waking on water thing failed. He had to be fully 
committed. After noticing that, and perhaps getting slapped in the 
face by a wave, his faith began to waver. We would to well to learn 
from Peter, that it we commit to the gospel, it may require 
abandoning convenient fallback positions in order to be fully 
committed. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 26° CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016 AT 6:20 AM 

Went to Edsel and Elenor Ford house in Gross Point, walked the 
grounds and toured. It was interesting, kind of eclectic, lots of 
original art. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 43° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016 AT 9:59 PM 

Good day today. Really nice trip to the temple. We were able to 
witness Elaine Starko, a sister in the ward, get sealed to her parents. 
In fact, it worked out really well that we could be there and provide 
men for the ceremony. Heard from Juntos who gave me a 
coding/data assignment. I suppose I should be happy but these 
things usually just started stress me out. Watched “Bridge of Spies” 
with Dad, which was really engaging. 
In scripture study thought about how I can be more compassionate. 
“It is not good that man should be alone.” 

4990 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 38° CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016 AT 7:59 PM 

Alright day today, I guess. I mean, I did fly through the air faster than 
most humans have ever traveled in order to get to a city of 8.5 
million people filled with some of the finest shops, museums, and 
restaurants in the country, if not the world, to stay at an elegant 
hotel, provided for by Mooples. The only thing is, I didn't really want 
to go to NYC, especially with this Juntos thing hanging over my 
head. After all, I have a chorale concert next week, so I don't want 
anything else on my plate the first week of the new term. Ungh, the 
old term just ended, and I feel like the break was so short. 
Technically, I'm still on break. But, I'll be transitioning back into work 
mode. I feel like I spend 10 weeks working 70+ hour weeks, then 
have one or two weeks of break, then go back to 70+ hour weeks. In 
fact, I have not had a regular, approximately 40 hour work week 
since middle school. I wonder if that's how I want to live my life… 
Anyway, got up, finished packing, finished reading “The Circle” with 
its Orwellian ending that might as well have said “I love Big 
Brother.” Flew out to NYC. Had dinner at a little American bistro 
near the Benjamin. Went to an art exhibit on unfinished art at the 
Met Breuer. Art museums are not my favorite, but at least it was 
open. Began an intro course in R to see if it would be useful for the 
Juntos data project. I don't know what other language I would do it 
in… 
In scripture study, I learned that if we implore the Lord as the Gentile 
woman did, we will be answered. 

557 LEXINGTON AVE, NEW YORK, NY, UNITED STATES • 46° HAZE 

FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016 AT 8:59 PM 

Good day today. Went to the Museum of Natural History in the 
morning, which was really nice. Saw giant sloth fossils, info about 
disease eradication, and a planetarium show. Around 1:00, Kent and 
Mom went off to the Met with Aunt Donna, while Padre and I stayed 
at the Natural History museum until around 4:30. Later, went to a 
nice early birthday dinner for me at an Italian Restaurant, and even 
got a surprise birthday cake at the end. Then, went to see “Fiddler 
on the Roof”, which was very good and I enjoyed. Lots of relevant 
themes about tradition, persecution of minorities, and change. 
In scripture study, I learned that Christ gave thanks before 
multiplying the bread, so I should be grateful for that museum trip, 
dinner, and show. 

569 LEXINGTON AVE, NEW YORK, NY, UNITED STATES • 48° CLEAR 

SATURDAY, MARCH 26, 2016 AT 9:11 PM 

Good day today. Went to 9-11 memorial, very moving. Went to 
Intrepid: Sea, Air, Space museum, saw Enterprise space shuttle. 
Went to a nice dinner and saw “Waitress”, which Kent really wanted 
to see. It was total cotton candy, but good. Not as good as Fiddler 
though. 
In scripture study, I thought that “help thou my unbelief” could be a 
product of the apostles' earlier failures to heal the child, indicating 
the need to ask God to help us overcome unbelief caused by people 
or institutions disappointing us. 

569 LEXINGTON AVE, NEW YORK, NY, UNITED STATES • 43° CLEAR 

SUNDAY, MARCH 27, 2016 AT 7:58 PM 

Perhaps I should do a full spring break reflective for this entry. I had a 
good break, although I didn't really enjoy the trip to New York that 
much. It wasn't bad, but I just don't think it really got a good return 
on investment for all the money that Mom and Dad spent on it. I 
guess part of it was a bad attitude. Mostly, I was worried (and am still 
worried) about this submission for the data analyst position, getting 
a research assistant position in CS, and a concert the first week of 
the quarter. I feel like the quarters are almost a nonstop deluge of 
work, although I did better last quarter with balancing. Maybe I can 
do even better this quarter. Sometimes I just want to sit in my room 
and read, but I feel bad because there's so much to do. 
Going to the temple was definitely a highlight of the week. It was 
really nice to be able to witness the sealing. 
I'd like to really work on keeping my thoughts clean this week, 
including being free of fouls language. I'll work on writing three 
things that I'm grateful for in my journal, as well as cultivating better 
prayer and scripture study habits, which slacked off a bit during the 
break. 

SAN FRANCISCO, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MARCH 27, 2016 AT 10:38 PM 

Good Sabbath. I want to go to need early, so I'll keep this short. 
Went to Easter service at a singles war in Manhattan (because they 
were at 9:00) it was nice but I was sleepy. Made a last trip to MOMA, 
where I saw some impressionist stuff I liked (wrote about it in my 
Evernote). Kent and I had lunch there before going back to the 
hotel, picking up our stuff, heading to the airport, and flying back to 
Stanford. I made some progress on the Juntos thing, although I'm 
not sure how much they want me to do. Adam drove us to campus. 
Unpacked. 
I can't believe that spring break is already over and it's already a new 
quarter. I wish I'd enjoyed it more. Maybe I should have let myself 
enjoy it more. Anyway, it's over, so time to just enjoy the new quarter 
now. Hopefully it's balanced with lots of good activities and not a 
slog of work. I hope watching the Monday lecture for 107 works 
out… We shall see. 
In scripture study, I thought about the young rich man and the things 
that would “make me sorry” if I had to give them up for the gospel. 
Based on how I feel ending vacation, my free time, apparently. It's 
interesting how giving such things up makes room for greater depth 
in our lives. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016 AT 12:51 AM 

Good day today. First day of “classes”, although I only went to part 
of one class as my day was mostly occupied by rehearsals. We had 
our normal lunch rehearsal, then a rehearsal with the choir of St. 
John's College, Cambridge (who are awesome), that went from 5:008:
30, with a dinner break. Chorale then rehearsed its own set until 

9:30. Lots of signing. My voice is tired. I caught the last half of 
CS107 in person after chorale rehearsal, and watched the rest online. 
Most of the rest of my time today was spent doing housekeeping. I 
purchased my textbooks and some new notebooks and folders. I 
downloaded some software for Psych 154, including GitHub, which 
Norton thought was a Trojan, so I had to allow it about a dozen 
times. I also discovered that one of the variables in the Juntos data 
set that I had assumed was dependent was actually independent, 
and so I had to reorganize my whole program around the effects on 
those groups individually. I did get it mostly done, although I haven't 
checked that the data I think I'm getting actually matches reality. 
Anyway, I should go to sleep. 
In scripture study, I learned that sometimes, I am like the fig tree 
Jesus cursed. I want to look good to others but don't bear actual 
fruit. This makes me either away spiritually and feel unfulfilled. The 
simple solution is to prioritize doing good over appearing good. So, 
time to reach out to others. 
554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016 AT 11:55 PM 

Good day today. Had my first Thinking Through Africa lecture, which 
is taught by two professors and two postdocs. I really like the history 
professor who teaches it, and the readings seem interesting, so it 
should be a fun class. (Today I did a reading on the first two chapters 
of an autobiography of a slave named Equiano, who I'd read about 
in Adam Hochschild's “Bury the Chains”. Speaking of Hochschild, 
the professors of Think showed us an open letter that had been 
written to 60 Minutes about its misrepresentation of Africa, and he 
was one of the signatories. #respect dayone1://tags?name=respect I also 
had my first Psych 154 class, which was good. The syllabus includes 
lots of stuff I've heard about and am interested in, Thaler, Tversky, 
prospect theory, heuristics. It should be a good class. Also fixed my 
Juntos stuff so it's now grouped by account status and the code 
doesn't look horrible. I should probably test for statistical 
significance, but at this point I think I've put enough work into it. It's 
probably representative of my current knowledge of R and data 
science. Had dinner with Kent at ZAP where he helped me download 
some stuff for 107, then we went to SAY. We discussed at length 
whether or not to include a piece that talked in abstract terms about 
bullying and responding to bullies with violence. I finally proposed 
that we add an editor's note clarifying that we don't condone 
violence, and I think that satisfied everyone. Kent had been pushing 
hard to get that piece in, so I'm glad that I could help. Tomorrow is 
chorale concert. It'll be busy. 
In scripture study, I learned that when Christ tells us to “watch” in 
relation to the Second Coming, we should principally watch 
ourselves: our thoughts, words, and deeds as Mosiah says. It's 
definitely easy to become lax in those things. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016 AT 12:20 AM 

Good day. First Think discussion section. Did the Psych reading, kind 
to technical, but I understood it, for which I'm grateful. Chorale 
concert went well; I'm grateful for that. Angus Dei was really good, 
especially the bass melody part, which I felt like I really nailed. Had 
Habla. My tutee wasn't there, but I stayed there to work with a small 
group, and I think it was helpful, as I was the most fluent in Spanish 
and helped guide the conversation. I met a person named Jenny in 
my group and afterwards we discussed cognitive psych, decision-
making, and biases, since I'd mentioned my interest in class. I'm 
grateful I stayed and could have that interesting conversation. To 
bed. 
In scripture study, I read in Isaiah 1-2. I thought about the kind of 
idols I might throw away at the second coming. Computer games? 
Academic achievement? 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

April 2016 

FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2016 AT 12:12 AM 

Good day today. Perhaps I should just not correct the random 
autocorrect stuff that happens when I write. What if I didn't use 
backspace at all for this entire entry' that would be interesting, 
wouldn't it? Anyway, had a really engaging think lecture on slavery, 
including an interesting comment at the end that (oops, used 
backspace) Olaudah Ewuiano's t account of slavery was in fact, not 
his, as he apparently grew up in South Carlonsia. At least, according 
to some evid de. Good Psych lecture where we were able to play 
with stuff in R. Kind of little applet things. My question that I 
submitted for the homework was selected as a good example of 
what to ask, and got a high score, which is good. Hmm, I also set up 
PuTTY to log into the myth servers, and began the first assignment. 
For a while, I had a weird loving issue where I couldn't enter my 
password, and I finally figured out, after consulting with Mentre, that 
Kerebos was logging me in automatically but failing, I guess. We 
also got tons of new music in chorale, or rather we ent over our new 
music, which Es exceedingly freaky. I'll have to dedicate some time 
to working on it. And now I can say that writing without backspace 
reauires more effort and self-control than I thought, and definitely 
isn't worth is. 
In scripture study, I learned that we should ask, when facing a 
difficult task or reflecting on one, “what more could I have done”, 
ask the Lord asks about his vineyard in Isaiah 5 and Jacob 5:47. This 
ties into the idea of “reasoning together” with the Lord when we 
win. We want to understand what happened and how to prevent it in 
the future. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, APRIL 2, 2016 AT 1:21 AM 

Major computer problems. 

In scripture study, I learned that's e seed of evildoers will never be 
renowned. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, APRIL 3, 2016 AT 12:47 AM 

Good day. Computer issue unresolved. Conference good. Had 
dinner at Olive Garden with Connor and his dad. 
In scripture study, I learned that God can gather me as He did Israel. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, APRIL 3, 2016 AT 11:45 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Watched the last two sessions of General 
Conference at the Johnson's house, which was nice. There was a talk 
on helping refugees that really spoke to me. I'd like to get more 
involved in that. Peter and I home taught Evan Magnusson after 
conference, then I cocooned in my room, finalized assignment 0 for 
107, did readings for Think, and wrote a question for Psych. I also 
Skyped with Kentre and Mooples, during which period I was 
interrogated about my summer job prospects. I don't know if this 
thing with Juntos will really go through, but Kent just put me in 
touch with a lab on campus that does technology to change 
behavior, which is right up my alley, so hopefully I can get into that. 
I'll have to become more familiar with their material and think of lots 
of cogent questions to ask their representative when I meet with her. 
The FroSoCo computer guru was out tonight, so I haven't yet 
resolved the start menu problem. Soon, I hope… 
In scripture study, I prepped for home teaching Evan, where we 
discussed how to make General Conference “stick.” Public 
commitments, reviewing the messages, and phone reminders were 
all discussed. I did have a few things that I felt I should commit to, so 
I should review those and make a game plan for achieving that goal. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° PARTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2016 AT 9:44 AM 

I'm doing this entry a day later than normal since I was busy with 
General Conference and HT prep yesterday. I wanted to take some 
time both to review the past week as well as my impressions from 
General Conference. I worked hard in a variety of fields last week, 
from choir to class to the Juntos assignment to trying to fix my 
computer. I got back into better scripture study, although my 
weekend study was disrupted somewhat by conference. I didn't feel 
super spiritually charged from conference, but there were definitely 
impressions that I want to act on. I did a fairly good job at keeping 
my thoughts clean, basically it's a lot easier to do when I'm busy with 
work. A few things I'm concerned about: (1) being really busy with 
chamber chorale concerts seemingly every weekend (2) the difficulty 
of CS107. I'm going to make an effort to do all the readings so I 
really have a good foundation in that class. (3) Getting a summer 
job. I'll need to contact Ariana, maybe some people in the Psych 
department about a research assistant position. I'll also need to stay 
on top of home teaching and coordinating Friday Forums. I feel like 
my prayers this week have been alright, but not stellar. I should 
remember to focus on gratitude both on my prayers and in my 
journal entries. 

Conference commitments: 
-Invite Victor to Friday Forum 
-Pray to know how to pray more powerfully 
-Contact people I know from my mission 
-Find ways to minister to refugees. Go to the website 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016 AT 12:07 AM 

I'm grateful for today. I'm grateful for the washing machine and drier 
that saved me from an hour of work washing my clothes (which I 
could then waste by playing “Gunpoint”, a stealth puzzler that was 
on sale on Steam. I'm grateful for the sale.) I'm also grateful for 
autocorrect software, which helped me write “washing machine” 
instead of “washing mashie”. I'm grateful that CS lecture is taped so 
I could watch it after chorale practice, and I'm grateful that I 
understood it. I'm grateful that The Johnsons foisted a loaf of bread 
on me yesterday so I could have a hasty snack after realizing that I 
hadn't allocated enough time to eat lunch. I'm grateful that my 
computer is functional despite the start menu issue, and that Ekua, 
our computer guru, is looking into how to solve it. I'm grateful that I 
could write down my conference commitments in my phone and set 
reminders to do them. I'm grateful that I have a phone. I'm grateful 
for the gorgeous weather, and that I have a fan and electricity to 
keep me cool when my room gets warm. I'm grateful that I could 
help Nicolas learn a bit more English in Habla. I'm grateful for this 
journal app to record my gratitude. (Now that's meta.) I'm grateful 
that Kent put me in contact with someone in the Persuasive Tech lab 
to discuss the possibility of an research assistant position. I'm 
grateful that Heavenly Father helped guide my words as I emailed 
her to set something up today. I'm grateful for the chance to sleep. 
In scripture study, I read about the people of Israel building walls 
and digging moats yet neglecting the God who could be their sure 
defense. I imagine that I too am often reliant on worldly strength 
alone and don't attribute as much as I should to God's power. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2016 AT 12:16 AM 

Good day. I'm grateful for another engaging Think lecture as well as 
a positive introductory meeting with Dr. Kish, my Think TF. Discussed 
signal detection theory in Psych and had a reading on Sequential 
Sampling Models, which work kind of like neurons with variation in 
your drift as your gather input until you finally hit a decision 
threshold. I'm grateful for a good discussion in institute about Christ 
being the nail in the sure place and bearing the weight of our sins. 
I'm grateful for the chance to play games a bit since I didn't have 
anything tonight. The rest of this week I'm probably going to be 
working on the CS assignment. I hope that lab tomorrow clears 
some stuff up about it. I'm grateful that I was able to get ahead on 
my Think and Psych readings to clear space for that. 
In scripture study, I read about how descriptions of Christ's 
Atonement are often paired with injunctions to repent. Promise and 
condition. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016 AT 12:29 AM 

Good day. Nice Easter concert/devotional thing out on by the 
LDSSA at MemChu. Had first CS lab, went well. Built a lot of the 
basics for the first assignment, now need to integrate them and 
improve style. Psych quiz tomorrow. 
In scripture study, I learned that the righteous and the wicked 
respond to good things in very different ways. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016 AT 8:41 PM 

Good day today. 

Good think lecture. Did alright on Psych quiz. Missed one question. 
Finally bit the bullet and reset my PC, so I spent some of tonight 
redownloading programs. Luckily, I still had my installers in my 
downloader. 

418 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016 AT 11:42 PM 

Good day today. Made good progress reassemble. Good progress 
meaning that I got all the functionality working and got it to run 
clean under Valgrind for all the inputs I could think of. I still need to 
clean up a few comments and maybe try to consolidate code, 
although I have pruned it down fairly well. Had a good current 
events presentation in Think on Chinese trade with Ethiopia. Went to 
Friday Forum briefly before heading off to CS107, where we 
discussed heap and stack allocation and fixing errors related to them 
using Valgrind and gdb. Went out to dinner with Peter, Andrew, and 
Connor, and did home teaching together afterwards. At my 
suggestion, that “there's a positive correlation between level of 
sketchiness and goodness of food at taquerias, we went to a place in 
East Palo Alto that took me right back to my mission. And, true to 
form, the food was great. It was fun. I also played some XCOM just 
to distress, I mean, destress. I started a new campaign, made some 
new characters, etc. Well, tomorrow's chorale performance. 
In scripture study, I learned that the transient philosophies, 
pleasures, and cares of this world (dare I say computer games or 
even grades?) fade as the grass. The word of the Lord, in contrast, 
abides for ever. You don't even need to refresh it and restore all your 
files from backup. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° LIGHT RAIN 

SATURDAY, APRIL 9, 2016 AT 9:46 PM 

Good day today. It was dominated by the NorCal choir festival. We 
left campus at 10:00 am to drive to Daly City, where we took BART 
to SF. We sang in a nice basilica along with 5 other choirs, each 
doing 20 minute sets. There was a papusa place just three blocks 
from the church, so most of us got papusas for lunch. I haven't had a 
papusa since my mission. They were very good (although they 
seemed to use cheddar instead of queso blanco). Between sopas 
yesterday and papusas today, I've had a nice little culinary return to 
my mission. After the concert, I got back to campus around 6:00, 
had dinner, talked to Jessica Moffit, who's taking a leave of absence 
from Stanford since she's been so sick. Bummer. I finished my psych 
readings, decided that I want to research food aid in Ethiopia for my 
Think paper, and played a bit of XCOM. 
In scripture study, I learned that my spiritual experiences make me a 
witness for the Lord, and I have a responsibility to testify of Him in 
my actions as well as my words. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, APRIL 10, 2016 AT 9:51 AM 

This week, I'm going to divide my notes into what went well, what 
did not go well and why, and how I will change next week. 

What Went Well 


I feel like I had pretty meaningful scripture study this week and 
was engaged during institute class. 
I had some good and meaningful prayers as well. 
I chose to go to the Easter Celebration, where I felt the Spirit 
Heavenly Father blessed us to sing well at the choir festival. 
I had a good time with Andrew, Peter, and Connor on Friday 
night. 
I was able to refresh my computer without incident 
I feel like I worked hard this week and was decently on top of 
things. I especially put in a lot of work for CS with reassemble, 
and I'm glad that I chose to do the readings as well. 
What Did Not Go Well and Why 


I felt really tempted by sexual thoughts, mostly on Friday and a 
bit on Saturday. I avoided thinking about them too long, but 
even a few seconds is really too long. I feel like I actually 
combatted them decently well, I listened to “The Lamb of God” 
and promised myself the reward of playing computer games if I 
kept my thoughts clean. Still, that's something I'd like to do 
better on next week. 
I probably played computer games a little too much this week. 
Maybe switching one night of computer games with one other 
activity (or more study) would have balanced things out. 
I should set up a date sometime, although I can't next weekend 
due to chorale, but I should think about it. 
I looked into the refugee site a little bit but didn't see anything I 
could immediately act on. I'll need to investigate it more. 
I'm worried about finding a summer job. Ariana hasn't gotten 
back to me yet and I haven't contacted any other labs. 
What I Will Do This Week 


Ask Peter to set up home teaching appointments. 
Limit my computer game usage. This shouldn't be too hard since 
I'll be in Mt. Sashta on the weekend. So, one, maybe two nights 
max. 
Look more into the refugee website and Jason's Facebook post 
about local opportunities. 
Review my General Conference commitments. 
When I feel tempted by sexual thoughts, I will listen to church 
music. 
Research and contact another psych lab about opportunities as a 
summer research assistant. 
contact mission people 
554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° LIGHT RAIN 

MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 AT 12:14 AM 

Good Sabbath. Church, family call, business. Madre told me to claw 
my way to a summer job this week. I've been doing at least one 
thing every week since the start of winter quarter basically. Hopefully 
something turns out. Highlight of the day was a concert of the early 
music singers at MemChu. It was dark, the choir was in the back, and 
very few people came, making it almost totally silent before the 
performance. It was a really spiritual setting. I wrote about it in my 
Evernote. (Reminds me a bit of the church in “The Talos Principle”.) 
In scripture study, I reflected and set goals, which I'll have to review. I 
learned that sometimes God tries to shape me (either through 
experience or guidance) and I pridefully ask “What makest 
thou?”(Isaiah 45:9). I should do better at being responsive, rather 
than resistant to such molding by the Master Potter. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016 AT 12:33 AM 

Good day. Chorale rehearsal. Watched 107 lecture on typecasting 
and generic functions. Void* pointers galore! Had dinner with Kent 
at ZAP, then went to Cream for LDSSA FHE. No Nicolas at Habla so I 
drafted an email to the Affective Neuroscience Lab asking about 
internships. It always takes me so long to do those things, as I have 
to research the lab, read one or two of their papers, and compose a 
coherent email. I rewarded myself with a bit of XCOM. After a 
disastrous mission in which I lost two soldiers, I redeemed myself by 
snatching my squad (and a captured enemy VIP) from the jaws of 
death in the next mission. 
In scripture study, I prepared for a devotional (which I didn't give) on 
letting the Lord changed us, based on my previously expressed 
thoughts on Isaiah 45:9. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° PARTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016 AT 12:08 AM 

Good day today. I saw Kent briefly biking from Think to Psych, which 
both went well. I picked up a sleeping bag for Sashta from Lisa 
Pearson and spoke to her briefly about how things are going. I sent 
off an email to the affective neuroscience lab and had Kent try and 
contact Amy Antonelli for Friday Forum. Did lots of readings for 
Psych and Think, and a tad for CS. I participated in a FroSoCo 
interfaith discussion as well, and it was fun to hear people's different 
perspectives. This one was predominantly Catholics. I played a bit of 
XCOM as well. I managed to survive a rather difficult mission in 
which you had to protect this transmission device and there were 
two enemy squads literally right on top of it. Not only that, but after I 
engaged them, three more sectoids dropped from the overpass 
above and flanked me from behind. Luckily, they just tried to mind-
control my troops rather than shooting them, so my squad survived 
almost unscathed. 
In scripture study, I learned that in order to experience opposition in 
all things, there must be times that we don't feel as close to God as 
we'd like. We listens to Handel's Messiah in institute today, which 
was very uplifting. I read a bit from my missionary journal tonight. I 
can't say whether or not it was intentional, but I turned to a part of 
my mission that had been particularly difficult for me. My life is so 
easy now! Here's to gratitude, for sleep, for being able to listen to 
music and play games, for interesting classes and projects. For not 
biking 30 miles in blistering heat and humidity. For being close to my 
family. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016 AT 1:07 AM 

Good day. Had good think discussion. Talked about the Savior's 
crucifixion in institute. I tried having lunch before institute and it 
made me very sleepy around 2:30. I had CS section, which was 
alright. My partner wanted to speed through the exercises, which 
was a little frustrating. I think I understand void*s and generic 
functions basically though. Nice SAY meeting tonight, as well as 
tutoring in Habla about health. Nicolas did really well. The big news 
was that Juntos contacted me for an interview. Oh yay! Oh no! I just 
don't know the kind of questions that they'll ask me. I'll have to 
brush up on my statistics and significance testing during Sashta. 
In scripture study, I read from Isaiah and learned that Heavenly 
Father can open my ears to increase both my secular and spiritual 
understanding. I definitely need it: 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 AT 4:07 PM 

Okay, I admit that I'm writing this on Sunday instead of Thursday, but 
it's been a busy few days. So “today”, I had regular Psych and Thibk 
lectures, and after a quick lunch, I packed my bags and departed for 
Mt. Shasta with Justin, Matt, Teresa, and Alon. I got at least some 
work done in the car. We had a nice dinner at the Black Bear Diner in 
Redding, which had some lovely spicy sandwiches. It was soothing 
to drive in the mountains. I listened to “Waves” by Abbey 
Gundersen while winding up the dark road, and it was one of those 
nice calm moments. After getting to the cabin (which is very nice 
and spacious and has a gorgeous view of Mt. Shasta, although I 
didn't discover that until the next morning) I did some work and 
went to bed. 
In scripture study, I learned that love is a more powerful motivator 
than fear. It was love that allowed Christ to overcome even the fear 
and weight of our sins in the Atonement. For what I truly love, I can 
overcome what I fear. 

I-680 S, BENICIA, CA, UNITED STATES • 74° SUNNY 

SATURDAY, APRIL 16, 2016 AT 1:14 AM 


Stars. But I'll get to that later. First the pedestrian and then the 
transcendental. I'm actually filling this in on Sunday, due to 
exceeding busyness during the Mt. Shasta trip. Anyway, we had two 
performances for K-12 school kids at a local college, in which we did 
some singing as well as little explanations of melody, harmony, and 
time. It was fun, although a little weird to think that I'm now in the 
position of the groups that toured to my high school. After a lunch 
and rehearsal with the Mt Shasta high school chamber chorale at a 
local 7th day Adventist church, we hung around downtown for a little 
while. I got a custom Mt. Shasta chocolate bar and talked with Matt 
and Alon about the “Who's teaching us?” movement at Stanford. 
We had a nice pizza dinner at he house of the president of Music by 
the Mountain, the program that's hosting us. After that, we went 
back to the cabin and I did more work. After finishing up work 
around 1:00 am, I went outside and was awed by the stars. There 
were thousands of them visible in the clear night sky. The mountain 
glowing slightly on the horizon gave the whole scene a moving 
effect. I really felt like I was in Erik Eichenvalt's “Stars”: Alone in the 
night on a dark hill… A heaven full of stars overhead, white and 
topaz and misty red… The dome of heaven like a great hill, and 
myriads with hearts of fire. Heaven full of stars. 

I unfortunately did not set aside time for scripture study, but my view 
of the stars was a moving spiritual experience. It's one thing to read 
about “worlds without end.” It's quite another to see them. I learned 
that the universe is truly great, the work of a loving Heavenly Father. 
“I know I am honored to be witness to such great majesty.” 

3003 CHINA MOUNTAIN RD, WEED, CA, UNITED STATES • 37° CLEAR 

SUNDAY, APRIL 17, 2016 AT 4:34 PM 


Okay, this is the official journal entry for Saturday, I chase I haven't 
confused you enough already. I'm writing it in Sunday as we return 
from Mt. Shasta. We had the morning free, which I invested in 
working on “synonyms” for CS107. I got the implementation 
working except for the memory management. I know I was being 
diligent and all, but I really wish I'd had time to go out snowshoeing 
or on a trail or something, as it was really beautiful out. My. Shasta is 
so majestic; it makes me want to climb it. I guess there's just some 
deep-seated human urge to summit. In the afternoon we returned to 
the 7th Day Adventist church where we practiced (I felt really good 
during the practice, but I felt like my voice was a little tired by the 
concert) and had a chili dinner. After dinner I played a fun game 
called “Spaceteam” with my friends, in which you each have a grid 
of controls on a spaceship and must work in tandem and give 
instructions to each other in order to not die. We then gave a 
concert in the church, which was quite long, including two 
collaboration pieces with the Mt. Shasta high school choir. It was 
good overall and I was glad we could bring some of our music to the 
community. After we got back, I engaged in more work, and the 
majority of the rest of the chorale got smashing drunk. Corks were 
popping all night. I did join some people by the fire pit for s'mores, 
but the conversation was raunchy, so I left. I'm glad they're not like 
that all the time. Laura, the accompanists who's hosting us, also got 
super drunk. sigh 
In scripture study, I read about Enoch and how God weeps for us, 
and Enoch's heart swelled “wide as eternity” for all that he saw on 
earth. Yet, he also saw hope through the Messiah. I love how that 
chapter showed the empathy of God. Likewise, I should love my 
brothers and sisters, and look with hope to Christ's Atonement. 

3003 CHINA MOUNTAIN RD, WEED, CA, UNITED STATES • 80° SUNNY 

MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016 AT 12:02 AM 

Good Sabbath. Returned from Mt. Shasta. Unfortunately couldn't go 
to church because we got back too late. Skyped with Mooples. Did 
work. I'm tired. Need more interview prep. 
In scripture study, I read in Isaiah 55 not to worry too much about 
things that, while important, are not the key to happiness. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016 AT 12:09 AM 

Brevity is the soul of wit. This will be a witty entry. Had trouble 
sleeping from gas last night, went to the bathroom several times in 
he night to burp and poop. Finally, around 6:45 am, I threw up. After 
that I went back to sleep until 9:00 I felt better, but still a little weird 
and weak. I didn't have breakfast, but I did have a bland lunch 
before going out to chorale practice. Thankfully that was my only 
class of the day. I was super busy finishing homework and haven't 
even had time to watch the CS lecture yet. I did go to FHE where I 
gave a spiritual thought on “mounts of hearing” and then to Habla. 
Oh yes, at the time of writing, it is now officially my birthday. Well, I'll 
celebrate after my interview tomorrow. 
In scripture study, I read in Isaiah about not being a selfish 
watchman, but giving of myself to share he gospel. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° PARTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2016 AT 1:24 AM 

Good day. Happy birthday to me. Regular classes in morning. 
Grateful I'm feeling better.?Did well on Psych quiz. Went to Juntos 
interview, which went well. Not technical, lots of “tell me about a 
time” questions. Grateful it went well. I should hear back about 
“next steps” in a week. I wonder what “next steps” are… Celebrated 
birthday. Kent came over. Skyped with Mooples and opened 
presents. Had dinner with Kent. Hard to believe I'm 21. 
Totally swamped with work. Better get to bed. 
In scripture study, I learned that “In all their afflictions, [Christ] was 
afflicted”, suggesting His perfect empathy. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° PARTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016 AT 12:53 AM 

Good day. Worked all day. Discussed stats stuff in Think. Had CS 
Lab, which had some difficult stuff on bitwise operators that I didn't 
finish. My partner was a tad misanthropic. Crammed in the psych 
reading and question, the Think reading and response, and finishing 
my annotated bibliography. I should start on CMap and CVector. 
And my church talk. And my Psych project. And my psych 
presentation. And sleep. 
In scripture study, I learned that we need both the “loving God” and 
the “wrathful God” at different times in our lives. I'm hoping for the 
loving one right now. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 2016 AT 1:30 AM 

Good. Busy. Think Lecture. Psych. Interesting discussion in institute 
on Habakkuk as a pattern for prayer. Worked on CVector and made 
decent progress. Met with Ariana, who is involved with the 
Behavioral Design lab (Kent referred me to her). She's crazy, but very 
smart. I just hope she's not representative of the mental state of the 
lab. Went to s'mores night at Prof Campbell's house and discussed 
the proposed hard alcohol ban, on which he changed my mind from 
cautious opposition to cautious support and a desire for more info, 
and sexual assault on campus. 
In scripture study, I did a bit of talk prep. I want to perhaps bracket 
the talk with an unresolved story, but I'm not sure if it should be 
related to Kent's coming out or something else. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, APRIL 23, 2016 AT 1:04 AM 

Good day. Worked. Think discussion on Big Data usage. I love it 
when I get five minutes to come up with a nuanced position on 
topics experts spend years grappling with… I finished CVector, but 
I'm unsure how to do the cell data structure for CMap. Worked on 
my talk and my outline and read the Psych paper on mental 
accounting I'll be presenting on, which is super long. No FriFo today, 
but did go to FroSoBarbecue, and it was fun to talk with peeps. I'm 
so swamped with work. 
In scripture study, I did some talk prep. God's mysteries, I think, are 
catalysts for revelation. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, APRIL 24, 2016 AT 1:19 AM 

Good day. Worked all day besides Brunch with Kent at Stern and 
Family call. Made good progress on my essay outline, wrote church 
talk, and got most of CMap implemented, just need to do the 
remove and dispose functions. Chose a paper for the Replication 
project for psych, actually, it was one I read last quarter to learn 
about choice architecture and evaluative categories. 
In scripture study, I prepared for my talk and learned that life is like 
learning to walk, it's a process of controlled falling and the 
Atonement helps you get back up again. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, APRIL 25, 2016 AT 12:48 AM 

Good Sabbath. Gave my talk in church. It went well. Kent came. He 
pulled me aside after the talk for a “heart to heart”, and we walked 
around the block for 15 minutes or so. He told me that he'd been 
taking a “sabbatical” from church and that he'd been enjoying it. He 
feels like the church introduces a lot of anger and feelings of “not 
peace” in his life, and for now he's content to let the questions of 
eternity wait and get out and date and live his life. He doesn't want 
his life to be dictated by twelve men in Utah. He doesn't know if 
things will be different a year from now or five years from now, but 
that's how he feels currently. As he started saying this, I prayed very 
hard to know what to say. I said that he'd my brother and I want him 
to be happy and at peace, and that I'll love and support him in 
whatever way he chooses to seek that. He asked about telling his 
thoughts to Mom and Dad, and I asked him “What do you hope to 
gain by not telling them”. He replied, “Conflict avoidance.” I think 
he eventually decided to call them to talk about it, so hopefully the 
air is clear and everyone is on the same page now. It makes me sad 
that Kent doesn't want to be in the church right now, since the 
gospel is something that brings me so much joy and peace and 
makes me a better person (I'd be majorly selfish without it. With it, 
I'm only moderately selfish.) I can understand that he would be 
frustrated, however. There's a lot of negativity surrounding gays in 
the church. I just wish we could better follow the counsel of Nephi in 
2 Nephi 26:23-25. He says of the Lord, “Behold, doth he cry unto 
any, saying: Depart from me? Behold, I say unto you, Nay; but he 
saith: Come unto me all ye ends of the earth, buy milk and honey, 
without money and without price.” 
Besides that, it was a pretty regular day. I had to leave church early 
for chorale practice since we didn't have our regular one on 
Thursday. I also met with my presentation partner for Psych and we 
coordinated. 
I finished up my talk in scripture study, which is posted to my 
Evernote. Peter and I also home taught Jared, and I committed to 
do more to reach out to others different from myself (ex. Help 
refugees). 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 2016 AT 1:38 AM 

Good day. Work. Polished CMap and CVector. Got a good grade on 
the previous assignment. Chorale practice. Defended my computer 
form malware. Lisa and Howie Pearson took me out to dinner at 
Brioche. Nice, but time consuming. 
Practiced psych presentation. Habla went well with Nicolas talking 
about health. 
In scripture study, I learned that it's tempting to carve out my own 
gods but they will be broken cisterns, not fundamentally satisfying 
me. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2016 AT 12:58 AM 

Wow, I almost wrote “In class notes.” Definitely too tired. Productive 
day though. Plenary session/panel in Think. I gave my presentation 
with my partner on Mental Accounting in Psych and it went well. 
Good discussion on Jeremiah in institute. Talked about God wanting 
us to acknowledge Him as our Father. Finished the Think readings, 
did a Psych reading on overconfidence, submitted CMap/CVector, 
met with my Psych project group. For some strange reason, we have 
to write our proposals separately although we're all working on the 
same project. Apparently I am the only one with any experience in R 
in the group, so I guess the burden of data analysis falls on me. I am 
the duke now… and I am alone. Nevermind that, just quoting 
Heroes of Might and Magic VI (which I never actually bought). 
Anyway, I was able to write most of my proposal tonight, and I think I 
identified the statistical tests we should use (two way ANOVA, as the 
study is a 2 X 2 design). There's one component I still need to work 
out though. Maybe I'll check out office hours for Psych this week. 
In scripture study, I read from Jeremiah and was super tired. I 
wondered why people would want to accept idols in the first place. 
One reason my be because they feel like God demands too much. 
Another is that they feel like God's not giving them what they want. 
Either way, it's kind of selfish. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° PARTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, APRIL 28, 2016 AT 12:50 AM 

Good day. Think section in which they finally gave us more 
instructions for the outline due tomorrow, which were slightly 
contradictory compared to the original ones. sigh Saw President 
Hennessy talk about “What Matters to Me and Why.” He talked 
about the honesty to tell the hard truths, community, and how proud 
he was for sticking with expanded financial aid during the 2008 
financial crisis. He was also very good at avoiding questions he 
didn't want to answer, like a question about staff and rising cost of 
living in the Bay Area. CS lab on floats was a bit confusing. I had a 
decent partner though. I went to Prof. Poldrack's office hours today 
to ask about doing ANOVAs in R. He gave me a good quick tutorial. 
I also invited him to FroSoCo's faculty night. It should be interesting 

to talk with him. I still haven't heard back from Juntos .. I'm 

assuming I didn't get the internship, but I'll email them tomorrow to 
follow up. Peter and I home taught Brickelle, which was fun. I notice 
that she's a person I don't have a problem having a sustained 
conversation with. I don't know exactly what factors affect that, or if 
it's just easier for me to engage with people one on one or in small 
groups than large groups. Taught Nicolas about “To be” in Habla. 
In scripture study, I read in Jeremiah how God compared himself to a 
contemporary religious leader and father, repeating the theme that 
God want us to recognize His Fatherhood. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 2016 AT 1:35 AM 

Good day. Standard classes andwork. ProFros arrived for admit 
weekend. 

In scripture study, learned that while we place responsibility on God 
to reach out to us, He's actually always reaching. It's our turn. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, APRIL 30, 2016 AT 1:17 AM 

Pod day. Good chorale concert at the Sequoias. Did work and 
played a tad of XCOM for a break. Now bed 
In scripture study,I read Jeremiah 31:28 and learned that God is the 
gardener in my life and He knows what He wants me to be. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

May 2016 

SUNDAY, MAY 1, 2016 AT 1:09 AM 

Good day. Slept in until 10:30. It was nice to catch up on sleep. 
Made progress on CS assignment and floats. Turned in Replication 
Project proposal and materials. Did a ton of reading for Think. There 
were almost 200 pages assigned for this Tuesday. One of the 
readings was this incomprehensible Communist ranting on violence 
that went on forever (and had some Freudian parts), just the kind of 
stuff I dislike, as the author provided little in the way of evidence or 
mechanisms for his claims. Anyway, it's done now. I also read TIME 
for too long and was distracted by Joel Stein's top 100 animals. I 
need to get on studying for this week's CS midterm. I hope the 
assignment is prepping me well. Other than that, I'll just have to do 
lots of practice tests. 
In scripture study, I looked outside my window and realized that the 
tree that had been barren all winter was suddenly covered with 
leaves. I thought, “When did that happen?” I think in our lives, our 
spiritual progress is often like that. We work consistently and achieve 
gradual, progressive change, but don't realize it until we have some 
moment where we say, “Wow, I really have changed!” So don't give 
up! Keep working! 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, MAY 1, 2016 AT 9:07 AM 

I was very busy these past few weeks had have not devoted enough 
time to this reflection. My scripture study and prayer have been 
alright. I think the biggest problem has been being sleep deprived 
and getting really tired doing them; which can hurt my focus. This 
week I should make and effort to be responsible about my sleep 
schedule and go to bed early as often as I can. I am not going to 
play any computer games or read TIME until after my CS midterm 
this week. I have been quite busy recently, z priced that it is easiest 
to keep my thoughts clean when I am busy. Since I should finally 
have a free weekend soon, I should set up a date. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY SUNNY 

MONDAY, MAY 2, 2016 AT 1:09 AM 

Good Sabbath today. Even though it's technically Monday, you can 
tell that I'm writing about Sunday because I said that. Regular church 
(well, except for fast and testimony meeting and a longer longer), 
but what I meant by regular is that I was able to stay for all three 
hours. (Couldn't do it the last two weeks and won't be able to next 
week because of an evil four hour writing workshop for Think). 
Finished up functionality for Assign4, although it needs a lot of 
polish. Wrote my rough draft for my Think essay (and by wrote, I 
mean that I stitched together the paragraphs I'd already written for 
my outline. Still needs topic sentences and transitions though. Right 
now it's just kind of vomiting facts at you. So… How do you end a 
multi-sentence parenthetical that began with an incomplete 
sentence? Period inside or outside the parenthesis?) Skyped with the 
family amidst great technical problems. High point of the day was 
giving a priesthood blessing to Brickelle with Peter. She's been 
going through a lot trying to plan for next year and having friends on 
the swim team try to use her medical draw to get better housing in a 
way she's not comfortable with. We came by and chatted and I gave 
the blessing. It was a really nice experience. I haven't given too 
many blessings since my mission. We were talking about priesthood 
power in Elder's quorum today, so it really drove the point home that 
I need to be ready and worthy at all times. I also watched the 
worldwide young adult's devotional while I was doing my Evernote. 
It talked about the different first vision accounts, which I thought was 
an interesting topic choice. Anyway, I hope that makes up for my 
lane scripture study this morning, which I decided to do in bed half 
asleep. I read in Obadiah and the only thing that came out clear was 
“Saviors on Mount Zion.” I guess I got to see a little of that today by 
giving a blessing. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, MAY 3, 2016 AT 12:05 AM 

Good day today. Pretty chill. Did work in the morning. Went to 
chorale rehearsal, where we ran the whole Coronation Te Deum, 
which went better than I expected. I also got a haircut and a card for 
Mom for Mother's Day. I polished my CS assignment, studied for the 
midterm by reviewing self-check questions, did my response for 
Think, some Think reading, and watched CS lecture. Had dinner at 
ZAP with Kent, which was fun. It seems like he watches a new TV 
series every week. “The Man in the High Castle” does sound 
interesting though. FHE was fountain hopping, which I didn't 
participate in because I had to watch my CS lecture and thought I'd 
have to go to Habla later tonight (it was canceled). One day… Still 
need to get someone for this Friday Forum… 
In scripture study, I read in my Patriarchial blessing about my studies 
and work, and decided that I want an experience this summer that 
will allow me to develop my current talents in programming and 
data science, prepare myself for a life of accomplishment and 
service, and discover what I enjoy and would like to enjoy more. 
Speaking of which, Juntos finally emailed me and said they'd 
“definitely” contact me this week. We shall see… 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, MAY 3, 2016 AT 11:55 PM 

Good day today. Big news is that I got an offer from Juntos. 
YAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAY!!! It was totally out of the blue, I was 
expecting that they'd say no after such long delays. Anyway, I check 
my email while at the library and there it was! I set up a call time for 
tomorrow to discuss start dates and details. It's such a huge relief to 
have a summer job. This last Sunday I fasted for help in finding one. I 
didn't think that the answer would be so immediate and direct! 
Besides that, it was a fairly regular day, with think lecture in the 
morning, psych (with a quiz that went well), and discussing Jeremiah 
and Obadiah in institute. I also had my oral defense of my outline for 
Think, which is in a small group of students with Dr. Kish. So, after I 
explain food aid targeting, various systems, how food aid appears to 
be targeted based on heuristics and political considerations, how 
that can leak into the market, have disincentive effects, but likely 
doesn't cause dependency (a major concern), and after discussing 
some targeting principles/lessons that may be drawn from the 
Ethiopian targeting experience, Dr. Kish asks, “So what's your 
argument?” sigh Apparently my paper sounds more like a research 
paper than a case study (I was under the impression that a case 
study of targeting would require research on targeting, not mushy 
gushy stuff. I'd have been perfectly happy to write a mushy gushy 
paper on how everyone feels about targeting if it had been made 
clear to me from the beginning that this was what was desired. I feel 
like I do reference the complexities of defining what “good” 
targeting is, how heuristics play a role in targeting, as well as political 
considerations, and I can even tie it into how the Ethiopian 
government is concerned about dependency, but I feel like the point 
of the essay is “how has targeting been approached in this context 
and what have been the outcomes” and not “let's talk about the 
context only.” Is this all in a parenthetical? Oh my, I'd better stop my 
rant now. Anyway, that was useful for organizing/venting my ideas. I 
just sometimes feel that in this class we're very concerned with 
critical deconstruction of everything that is wrong (with the European 
treatment of Africa, with development, with anything that smacks of 
a proposed solution) and not at all concerned with saying “what 
works and why?” which is basically what the thrust of my paper has 
been this far. Okay, Imm done now). Anyway, I took the CS practice 
test and it went fairly well, it felt rocky but I got most of the 
questions right, just need to practice memory diagrams and do more 
practice problems, if I can find them. I also got assign3 grades back 
and I did really well. Perfect functionality, yay! In other news, Ted 
Cruz suspended his campaign after losing Indiana, making Trump 
the virtually guaranteed Republican presidential nominee. The 
horror, the horror! Well, I hope Hillary crushes him. Otherwise, I 
might have to move to Canada. 
In scripture study, I read in Ezekiel that I have a responsibility to 
share the gospel with others , and “whether they will hear or 
whether they will forbear” is up to them. Process rather than product 
focused. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 2016 AT 11:46 PM 

Good day today. Went to think section and we discussed Fanon in all 
his Freudian glory, but thankfully, that was only part of the lesson. 
Right after that I had a call with Juntos clearing up details about the 
offer. Everything seemed to be in good order, so I verbally accepted! 
I should get a formal contract from them in a week or two. Yay!!! I 
had an enjoyable lunch at the faculty club with Professor Campbell 
and some other students from Think. We discussed the course, as 
well as student activism in the divestment and who's teaching us? 
movements. Prof Campbell is very thoughtful and reflective, and he 
gave a good answer to a student who basically said, “I feel like this 
course is making us do a lot of unlearning and not replacing it with 
anything.” He discussed one factor as the course balance, a third 
data and action-oriented lecturer had to leave unexpectedly not too 
long before the course started. He also discussed how the course 
was focused on critical thinking, not content. I was somewhat 
satisfied with that answer, and I think it explains at least some of the 
reason behind my frustration that the course suffers from analysis 
paralysis. However, I was none too happy with my case study 
feedback, in which Dr. Kish said “You need to make an argument 
that cannot be proven.” I feel like many of the assertions I make in 
the paper are controversial and contentious, despite being drawn 
from facts. In the tradition that “everything is an argument”, I would 
argue that it is quite argumentative. But, I already ranted last night 
and I'm compartmentalizing this issue to be dealt with after the CS 
midterm. Speaking of which, lab today went well. I had a good 
partner (the one I had on the first lab), and an actually understood 
what was going on with the assembly. Hallelujah. This evening, there 
was no SAY (we're basically done), but I did go to Habla, where I 
discussed various ways of discussing things that are broken with 
Nicolas. 
En mi estudio de las escrituras, leí más en el libro de Ezekiel. Hubo 
una parte que habló de “inquirir al profeta”, y condenó los que 
hicieron esto. No entendí porque lo dijo, pero al repasar una otras 
traducciones, parecía que esto refiere a personas inicuas e idolatras. 
Así que, básicamente la idea es, “No rechaces el Señor para adorar 
ídolos y entones esperar que él le ayudará cuando tus ídolos no lo 
hacen.” Hay que estar con él o en su contra. Escojeos hoy a quien 
sirvaís. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, MAY 5, 2016 AT 11:36 PM 

Good day today. Interesting lecture on South Africa in Think, 
although I had to go to the bathroom for half of it (I had to go a lot 
today, probably PSIOBS. Discussed intertempotal choice in Psych. 
Interesting thing about magnitude effects. You probably prefer $10 
now to $15 in a year, right? But do your prefer $1000 now or $1500 
in a year? 
I want the latter, even though it's the same proportionally as the 
original question, for which I preferred the immediate money. 
Apparently the fact that $500 seems like so much more than $5 has a 
psychophysical effect. Interesting discussion about Ezekiel and the 
throne of God in institute. Did some reading for Think (we get so 
much!), prepped more for tomorrow's CS midterm, made some 
comments on my peer review for Psych. Had an interesting 
conversation with Miriam at dinner about cosmology and religion. I 
really hadn't connected those two personally that much before. I 
typically think of the whole “science and religion” thing when 
thinking about evolution. (It's interesting how the fundamentalist 
Christian community tends to be disparaging of evolution because it 
apparently contradicts the Biblical creation story, yet they like the Big 
Bang because it implies a creation.) Had a good chorale rehearsal. 
Well, better get to bed for my midterm tomorrow! 
In scripture study, I had trouble writing insights down. One thing I 
did think of that we later discussed in institute was the apparent 
contradiction between Ezekiel 18 rejecting the proverb that “the 
fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children's teeth are set on 
edge” and scriptures like Exodus 20 that say that God answers the 
sins of the fathers on the heads of the children up to the third and 
fourth generations. I think that we are not responsible for the sins of 
others and can be personally free of iniquity while still suffering the 
negative consequences of others' sins. In fact, one of the purposes 
of the Atonement is to help heal us of those consequences even and 
especially when they're not our fault. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, MAY 7, 2016 AT 12:52 AM 

Good day today. Had think section, where we were told that our 
essays should focus on conceptual questions, not practical ones. 
Brought pizza for Friday forum. Had CS midterm. It generally went 
well, although I was a little iffy on the memory diagram. Did some 
readings. Played a bit of XCOM and a new Double Fine point and 
click game called “Broken Age”, which was interesting. I assumed it 
would end when you killed this big beast, but PLOT TWIST. 
In scripture study, I learned that, if we want to be blessed for past 
happiness, it is only just that past wickedness also has repercussions. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MAY 8, 2016 AT 12:53 AM 

Good day today. I was finally able to take a bit of a rest. I probably 
played too much computer games, but Broken Age had so many 
interesting plot twists! I finished my readings, wrote a psych 
question, and did battle with my Think essay, slowly transforming it 
from a practical, factual analysis of Ethiopian food aid targeting to a 
broad, conceptual argument about the revival of the dual mandate 
of humanitarian and economic development in Ethiopia through the 
PSNP. The latter makes no testable predictions and is therefore not 
empirically falsifiable (and basically useless IMHO), so I'll have to 
work on fleshing out the “so what” at workshop tomorrow. 
In scripture study, I read in Ezekiel (dem bones, dem bones, dem dry 
bones, come hear de word of de Lord!) and did a bit of meditative 
thinking. I think Ezekiel 37:17 about the stick of Judah and the stick 
of Ephraim can serve as a powerful metaphor for how the combined 
power of scripture should unite, not divide us. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MAY 8, 2016 AT 9:55 AM 

This week was a busy one. I worked really hard to prepare for the CS 
midterm, and I hope that my studying paid off. I probably played too 
much computer games this weekend. I should have gone to Grace 
or Mia's concert. Admittedly, I just wanted to rest for a while after 
going almost nonstop since Mt. Shasta. I'm really, really grateful that 
Juntos offered me a job. That was definitely a direct answer to my 
fast. My scripture study this week left something to be desired, as I 
fell asleep a lot due to sleep deprivation. However, as I recovered 
my sleep later in the week, I think that the quality of my studying 
improved. Prayers were generally good this week. I should 
remember to pray to know how to pray more effectively. I'm really 
glad that Peter and I were able to give Brickelle a blessing last 
Sunday. That was a good opportunity for me to reflect on using the 
priesthood. I should follow up with her to see how she's doing. 
Speaking of which, I should contact people to set up home teaching 
appointments. I generally did a good job of keeping my thoughts 
clean this week. It always helps to be focused on other goals. The 
most frustrating thing for me this week was the feedback I received 
on my essay outline, which I don't agree with and I feel like was not 
clearly stated in the instructions. I spent too much time holding a 
grudge about that. I'll need to pray for a new heart, as Paige said, 
and get to work revising the essay. I should also go on a date 
sometime soon. Will have to think about that. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MAY 8, 2016 AT 11:41 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Skyped with the family before church to wish 
Mom a happy Mother's Day. To think that a year ago, I was on my 
mission in Mobile. It's crazy how the time has flown. Was only able to 
catch part of Sacrament Meeting because I had to leave early to go 
to a mandatory 4 hour writing workshop for THINK. I was at least 
able to get a very rough draft of my essay down, which I'll continue 
to edit until it's due date on Tuesday. Besides that, pretty uneventful. 
Began trading very carefully around Binary Bomb to try to 
understand it and put in place safe testing mechanisms. Became 
randomly distracted after doing my journal entry and re-read the GDSM 
from last summer. Good times. 
In scripture study, I did my reflection and finished reading in Ezekiel, 
started Daniel. I thought about what it meant to “circumcise my 
heart.” It suggests both humility and a change of heart, a willingness 
to cut out that which is evil. Repentance, then, is the instrument of 
circumcision. I should remember to repent more frequently, not just 
in weekly reflection before taking the sacrament. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2016 AT 12:02 AM 

Good day today. Not too much going on. Practiced Chorale Music. 
Getting better at the insane “Coronation Te Deum”. Watched CS 
lecture on assembly and complier optimizations. Got feedback from 
Dr. Kish that my proposed argument was “superb”. Yay! Grateful for 
that. I just had to start thinking about it like an RBA from PWR. 
Worked on polishing up the essay. Got through the first two levels of 
binary bomb. Huzzah! Had a really good FHE activity where we just 
told our life stories. I realized that (1) I know very little about other 
people's life stories, and (2) I do not share my own life story a lot, or 
even really think about it in a holistic way. Typically I'm preoccupied 
with the now, or if I am reflective, it only goes back a year or two at 
most (more often it's a week). I'm grateful for the chance to share 
and hear. Had a good Habla session with Nicolas about bathroom 
vocab. I'm grateful that I can do something not focused on myself, 
like tutoring. The Spanish and reflective mood put some Spanish 
hymns into my head as I went back to the dorm. I got a little choked 
up singing “Placentero Nos Es Trabajar”. I should really try to 
contact people from my mission more. “Nos veremos aún más allá.” 
In scripture study, I read of the courage of Daniel to pray in the open 
in direct defiance of King Cyrus's command. He was willing to face 
the consequences of living what he believed, and it seemed that he 
wasn't too concerned with getting immediately rewarded for it. (He 
shows this attitude when interpreting Nebuchadnezzar's dream.) 
Good things to emulate. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES 

WEDNESDAY, MAY 11, 2016 AT 1:17 AM 

Good day. Regular Think and Psych lectures. Got my grade in the CS 
midterm back 65/75. Lower than I would have liked. Memory 
diagram part was the trickiest, besides that, minor points in other 
problems. Well, I'll just have to work hard on all the assignments and 
the final… Good institute class. Listened to “Ezekiel saw de wheel” 
and “Dry Bones”. Did homework and almost 100 pages of Think 
reading. Had Faculty Night with professor Poldrack, really good 
discussion with him. Struggled on Level 3 of Binary Bomb. I will 
prevail. 
In scripture study, I read “Of things that matter most” by President 
Uchtdorf. I certainly feel very busy as a Stanford student. Lots of 
work and lots of obligations. I find it hard to slow down. I guess at 
the end of the day though, my grades or my extracurriculars will 
matter much less than my growth and relationships. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016 AT 12:58 AM 

Good day. Good discussion in section. Nice little lunch at Olives. 
Meh institute with Bro Rasmussen (so dogmatic!) worked. Good CS 
lab (understood what was happening). Went to a little Psych 
discussion dinner, which was alright. Chamber chorale practice (on 
Wednesday this week). Hannah Pho is dropping the group because 
she has vocal nodes. Eeeeek! In Habla, we discussed more bathroom 
vocab and “-ing” 
In scripture study, I read Elder Callister's talk on the blueprint. I feel 
like sometimes we get carried away making these biblical 
comparisons. For one thing, I don't feel that it's relevant to those 
people who don't have a Christian background, and for those who 
do, I don't find it productive to say “My church is Biblically based 
and yours has been corrupted by the philosophies of men.” I doubt 
that will soften their hearts to the message. I guess the biggest idea 
to take from it for me is that there's a loving God who cares enough 
to communicate with us individually and answer our questions. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 AT 12:44 AM 

Good day today. Think Lecture by Prof Ferguson on Lesotho. 
Discussed social decision making in Psych. Didn't do so hot on the 
quiz, but oh well. On the plus side, I discovered that the average 
score on the CS midterm was 50/75, so I was more than a standard 
deviation above it. So, hopefully that translates to a good curve. 
Besides that had a good day at institute and worked. Besides an 
unintelligible Think reading, I whaled on Binary Bomb, and I 
defeated it!!! There really is a rush when you figure out how to solve 
a level. (There is still a secret level, but I don't know if you get any 
points for solving it. It's not part of the main assignment.) So, that 
was productive but exhausting. Hopefully I'll be able to knock out 
some readings and rest up this weekend. 
In scripture study, I read part of “A Promise of Peace”, which was the 
talk I felt we should share with Evan for home teaching. I learned 
that I should ask God to help me change my perspective, and not 
just my circumstances. #CognitiveReappraisal dayone1://tags?name=C 

ognitiveReappraisal 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, MAY 14, 2016 AT 12:29 AM 

Good day today. Had regular Think section in the morning. 
Organized FriFo food, then ran to 106, where we discussed gcc and 
its progress from preprocessing to compiling to binary encoding to 
linking. Finished up both my psych and think readings for the 
weekend. Yay! That means I should have too much homework. Went 
with Kent to the Fleet Street concert, which was disjointed but fun. 
One skit they did was a fictional police chase of a bicyclist in which 
the seasoned officer says, “Athletes own then campus.” They had a 
great song at the end about dinosaurs proposing the “meteor 
theory” as an analogy for global warming. Played some XCOM and 
surprisingly nobody died (on my side, that is). 
In scripture study 
Need to work on keeping my thoughts clean. Read more about the 
pattern for peace. Only by continually partaking of gospel living can 
I be protected from both worldly scorn and temptation. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, MAY 15, 2016 AT 12:34 AM 

Good day today. Restful. Had brunch with Kent at Stern. Revised my 
research proposal, wrote my response question for psych, and 
practiced chorale music. Also played too much computer games, so 
I won't be playing for a while. I got a new game called “Banner 
Saga.” It's basically Oregon Trail plus Game of Thrones plus 
Ragnarök, and it's rather depressing. You track around with this 
ragtag group of followers as the world ends around you, fleeing from 
city to city, finally facing up against a massive monster (which isn't 
actually the cause of these problems, just a symptom) and losing one 
of your main characters. Then it ends. (It's episodic, so there are 
other games, if I feel like wallowing in more world-ending.) Anyway, I 
could have balanced my time better today. Lesson learned. 
On the plus side, I did a somewhat better job at keeping my 
thoughts clean, but not perfect. Getting back to work should help. In 
scripture study, I read “To Young Men Only” and decided that I need 
to use hymns to fight temptation more. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MAY 15, 2016 AT 9:37 AM 

Let's see. This week had some good parts and bad parts. I worked 
really hard during the week, and I got to rest on the weekend, but I 
played too much computer games during my rest period. I was able 
to finish my Think rough draft, Dr. Kish liked my thesis and I did 
(comparatively) well on the CS 107 midterm. I know that was a 
blessing from Heavenly Father for doing my best to study. I really 
enjoyed talking to Professor Poldrack at faculty night. I was definitely 
inspired to invite him in the first place. I'm glad that I could spend 
time with Kent at the Fleet Street concert and at brunch. It's such a 
blessing to have him close. In addition to playing too much 
computer games, I was tempted by unclean thoughts this weekend, 
so I need to do a better job of keeping my thoughts clean. I think 
recognizing a thought as evil, labeling it as such, and replacing it 
with something good (like a hymn) is the right strategy to follow. I 
should let those moments of temptation turn me to God. As for 
computer games, there are a few rules I want to follow. (1) Always 
pray before playing computer games. Ask Heavenly Father to help 
me keep my thoughts clean, limit my playtime, and use it wisely. (2) 
Set a time for when I will stop playing and write it down. Any time I 
got over will limit future playtime (such as a hiatus) (3) Set specific 
goals for what I need to accomplish that day, and make sure those 
get done before I play computer games. I do enjoy playing, but all 
things must be done in moderation. Next time there is a temple trip 
available, I will go. (Unless, perhaps, it's finals week, but there should 
be one before that.) I also want to go on a date soon. So, I should 
figure out that. On the plus side, I think my prayers were pretty good 
this week, and I generally had meaningful scripture study, so at least 
I'm keeping up the basics. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MAY 15, 2016 AT 10:54 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Trying to go to bed early to get a good start 
on the week. Home taught Evan before church. Had a really good 
discussion about listening in addition to just learning as we study 
there gospel, which I think is something we all need to work on. It 
seems to really resonate with Evan, so I'm glad that the spirit led us 
down that path. We should follow up later. Went to church, and was 
glad that I could stay for all three hours without interruptions from 
classes or chorale. Good talks on not fixating on worldly goals, 
breaking down the justifying walls that we use to separate ourselves 
from others, and staying close to God amidst change. I could use all 
of those things. Had yummy Indian food at FloMo. Next CS 
assignment came out. They just keep coming. I expect that this one 
will keep me occupied for a while. I should write the Suber family 
soon. Maybe tomorrow in conjunction with scripture study. I'll think 
about what to say tonight. 
In scripture study, I reflected on my week and set some specific goals 
to keep my thoughts clean and avoid playing too much computer 
games. I feel like my recreation is really unbalanced. I go for weeks 
at a time where I'm swallowed up with work, then I'll blow a 
weekend playing because I finished up my homework. I wonder how 
I can balance things out more. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016 AT 12:11 AM 

Good day today. Had Chorale rehearsal, with reasonably good run-
throughs of the organ pieces for concert. (Except for “Seek Him that 
Maketh the Seven Stars”, which is ridiculously taxing.) Talked with 
Lizzie over lunch, which was nice. I haven't seen her in a while. 
Sounds like she's been off campus quite a bit for unnamed “not fun” 
reasons. Made great progress on assignment 6 for CS. Got 
functionality of the symbols part down. Just need to test it. Had 
Ethiopian dinner with Think. The meats reminded me of Indian 
curries. They use this pancake like bread as a sop, kind of like the 
way you eat with tortillas. Twas yummy. Our data came out for the 
psych replication project, so it will soon be time to analyze it. I just 
want to ask YC about the reasonableness of dropping people who 
gave answers to memory check questions that indicated that they 
weren't paying attention (ex 5 or 250 when the numbers were 
between 50-100). Marissa, a Sophmore in FroSoCo, invited me to 
FroSoCo Bible study, so I went and spent some time with her and 
Emily. We discussed Luke 19:1-10. It's interesting how different 
Christian perspectives examine the same passages. Obviously I don't 
have a very wide sample, but there's kind of a colloquial perspective 
on scriptures and prayer, much less formal than in the LDS church. I 
did say a silent prayer to be inspired as to what to share, and pretty 
soon, they were asking me about what Mormons believe about the 
Godhead, heaven and hell, polygamy, etc. It was a good chance to 
discuss my faith. After that, I watched the CS lecture on heap 
management, because HEAP ALLOCATOR cometh. I topped off the 
night playing an XCOM mission, with perhaps one of the most epic 
moves I've ever seen by a single soldier in the game. So, it's a timed 
mission so I'm trying to push forward to the objective and I end up 
aggroing a muton and two vipers. One of the vipers grabs my 
leading ranger, the appropriately nicknamed “Snake”. However, 
when he gets pulled near the viper, he doesn't get constricted. 
Rather, he breaks free of the grip and slashes his captor, damaging 
him somewhat. On top of that, the other viper tries to run past him, 
presumably to target him, and he slashes and kills that viper. It was 
the biggest backfire of an enemy attack I've ever seen. Moral of the 
story, don't mess with XCOM. Especially Snake. 
In scripture study, I read about Esther, by whose courage I'm 
continually impressed, and Haman, by whose pride I'm not. His pride 
made him mad at Mordecai for not Boeing at him, and he basically 
ignored all of his other comforts and said “I won't be happy unless I 
punish Mordecai.” So, pride and ingratitude are two components of 
the hedonic treadmill. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 2016 AT 12:31 AM 

Old day. Standard Think and Psych lectures. Discussed Esther in 
institute. Did a bunch of readings, including some prep for heap 
allocator, worked on next part of CS assignment and cleaning data 
for Psych. Played some XCOM and had two flawless missions in a 
row. Solid. 
In scripture study, I learned that I can go out of Babylon by setting 
my heart on the things of God and not of men, and striving to be 
clean. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 79° MOSTLY SUNNY 

WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 2016 AT 11:58 PM 

Sooo, I didn't update my journal last night because I was 
preoccupied with reading “Ctrl Alt Revolt!” But luckily I have the 
ability to turn back time to write my entry, even thought it's actually 
the 19th. Anyway, the book was good (I finished it tomorrow.) The 
author injects a lot of his conservative politics in his satire of a 
government that hands out lavish unemployment benefits and social 
media that scorns anything remotely seen as offensive, racist, sexist, 
etc. It also ends with a kind of random Deus Ex Machina that gets rid 
of the evil computer, after a small cataclysmic exchange as the 
computer releases nukes and stuff on the humans in a limited 
manner. There's also this random epilogue where the main character, 
who's blind and has cerebral palsy gets cured by a benevolent 
corporation that has set up an aid camp in the midst of the disaster. 
Turns out corporations were good after all. They always wanted to 
help but that pesky big government over regulated them. Also, the 
elites deleted all information about war strategy. And did I mention 
that the computer decided to destroy humanity because of a TV 
program in which the main character gets an abortion? Anyway, the 
overall effect (especially the corporation thing) was so laughable that 
if I didn't know better, I'd say that the author was satirizing 
conservatives through an exaggerated satirization of liberals. 
Anyway, besides that, I had Think section, where we discussed the 
(unintelligible and therefore deep) ideas of an author who writes 
about “private indirect government.” You can tell he's popular 
because when you google the phrase, his papers are the only results 
that come up…) Also gave a little institute devotional on going out 
of Babylon and going to meet the Savior. 
In scripture study, I studied for my devotional. A key idea is that we 
show how much we want to be with God by our actions. Following 
spiritual promptings is one way of “going out to meet Him.” 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY SUNNY 

FRIDAY, MAY 20, 2016 AT 12:12 AM 

Good day today. Lecture on the construct of property in think. Yuan 
Chang gave a good lecture in Psych on the various theories about 
the role of dopamine in reward. Long story short, we know it's 
important, but we're not sure if it's serving as a prediction error for 
learning or a source of wanting. Good discussion in institute on Ezra 
and rebuilding the temple, and how we can become temples, or 
conduits for the Spirit. I should go to the temple soon… I did some 
readings, got my CS program to pass sanity check. Yay! Made 
progress on data analysis for Psych. Preliminary results indicate that 
the main effect was not statistically significant. I hope I did the test 
right… Maybe I should test it without counterbalancing. Had dress 
rehearsal for tomorrow's chorale concert, which actually went quite 
well. For some reason, my voice felt really good and I didn't get too 
fatigued during the three hour rehearsal. Finished the night with a 
bit of XCOM, with “Snake” continuing to dominate and avoid 
getting shot. 
In scripture study, I read in Ezra and Haggai. Haggai 1:5-7 was really 
interesting. It basically says that g we neglect the temple (or any key 
aspect of our worship, presumably) then no matter how hard we 
work elsewhere, we won't prosper. It is interesting to think that I got 
my data analysis assignment from Juntos right after leaving the 
temple, and that they extended a job offer a few days after I fasted 
to be able to find appropriate summer work. I just signed my 
contract with them today (and emailed Jennifer Widom, who was 
happy to hear about her data science course in action). Blessings. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, MAY 21, 2016 AT 12:22 AM 

old day today. Normal section. Got food for FriFo with Kent and 
stayed to listen to Reverend Joanne Sanders discuss resilience. Did 
homework. Had a good concert with chamber chorale, although my 
voice felt tired. 
In scripture study, I learned from Nehemiah that I should pray in the 
moment of need, not just before it. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MAY 22, 2016 AT 12:56 AM 

Good day today. Did some homework, revising Think essay, research 
proposal, turned in CS assignment, finished Think reading, Psych 
data analysis, Think peer review. Had brunch with Connor, who home 
taught me. We talked about falling asleep during scripture study and 
dating. #GordonProblems dayone1://tags?name=GordonProblems Had 
family call. Madre seemed grouchy. We should find a way to make 
the family call more fun. It's kind of like an inquisition right now, and 
Padre can't get a word in edgewise. Let's see… Kent invited me over 
to ZAP, where I played Settlers of Catan with him and Brandon (sadly, 
I lost, but honorably). I also played some of Thea: The Awakening. 
I'd forgotten how enjoyable it was, rescuing children that some orcs 
had kidnapped from a demon (for myself), then blackmailing the 
demon into dating a dwarf so I could get a suit of armor (I ended up 
with four kids and some armor and nobody died, pretty impressive). 
That's it for today. 
In scripture study, I learned about Nehemiah and doing a great work. 
I was impressed how the people were actually joyful when the law of 
Moses was read to them. I should be more joyful about following the 
commandments, rather than seeing them as something odious to 
comply with. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, MAY 22, 2016 AT 10:15 AM 

Let's see, what did I learn this 
week? 

My strategy of praying and setting a specific time delimitation for 
when I'll start and stop playing computer games seemed to work 
quite well. The only issues occurred when I didn't pray and mark my 
end time (like last night, when I played a bit into Sunday). I did fairly 
well at keeping my thoughts clean, just a few issues related to 
tempting descriptions in the book I was reading, so I'll have to be 
careful about skipping over those. (Speaking of which, it was also 
way harder for me to stop reading the book when I needed to go to 
bed than with games, be aware!) On the balance, this week went 
quite well. I would have liked to do one more social activity (like a 
date?), but I'll need to plan it out in advance. Scripture study went 
pretty well. I tried to think about “listening” more as I studied, and 
that seemed to help me write down a few more insights. Prayers 
were generally good, although a little short when I went to bed late 
from reading my book. (I think I'll hold off on reading any more 
gripping fiction until after the end of the quarter.) I still haven't 
decided if I'll re-audition for chorale next year. If I do want to, I'll 
need to do music practice over the summer (maybe even lessons?) 
so I can prepare an audition song and sight reading. I'll probably see 
how I feel about the whole experience after tour. I'm grateful for my 
job at Juntos, as I finally signed with them this week. That's definitely 
been an answer to prayers and fasting. I should continue to pray for 
Mom and her job (and, if appropriate, fast). Did a good job at 
exercising this week, and I think I caught up on sleep well over the 
weekend. Should try to eat less desserts/sweets. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MAY 22, 2016 AT 11:42 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Got to sleep in nicely (which didn't prevent me 
from becoming veeeery sleepy during a rather unengaging Elder's 
quorum lesson. We actually had a great sacrament meeting. Instead 
of talks, it was a “hymns by request” session, where people gave up 
and shared a short testimony related to a hymn, then we sang a few 
verses of it. One person had us sing “Nearer My God to Thee” with 
the third verse acapella, which gave me chills. The Spirit was 
definitely there, and as Brother Johnson pointed out, hymns are one 
way that we emulate Zion-like unity. Our Elder's Quorum also got 
reorganized, since Jason Despain is leaving, and Thomas Cook will 
be the new Elder's Quorum president. He's definitely a hard worker; 
he'll be good. Besides church, I just worked on data analysis (and 
made a lot of progress), as well as revising my essay. I have three 
projects that I've been waiting for feedback/instructions on so I can 
continue, and I got it all today: Psych Replication Project, Think 
Essay, and HEAP ALLOCATOR. So, as Elder Tenney would say, it's 
time to go hard in the paint. I think if I just grind down each of those, 
I should be able to handle them. We shall see. 
In scripture study, I read about Zechariah. I learned that it's 
important not to be at ease, or “coast” in the gospel. I should be 
actively seeking to improve. But, as long as I am striving to improve, 
repenting, making commitments, and executing plans, then it's 
alright if I sometimes make mistakes. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016 AT 12:29 AM 

Good day today. Worked on essay. Worked on data analysis and met 
with group. Got music for Friday's chorale gig: rah rah patriotic. 
Didn't have Habla. Did lots of work. Hopefully will be able to knock 
out my projects. 
In scripture study, I learned that Christ provides hope not just for a 
better world in the resurrection, but also for a better one here 
through repentance and improvement. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 72° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016 AT 11:57 PM 

Good day today. Was tired during think lecture, but we learned 
about the politics of distribution and the idea of a guaranteed 
minimum income, which is supposedly better than other poverty 
interventions. (Prof. Ferguson didn't present any evidence for this 
other than a correlation and claim it was so.) had a guest lecturer in 
Psych, where we discussed intragroup conflict and had to play a 
silent game like hearts, except it turned out that each team had 
been given different rules. I think our rules were pretty similar to the 
first two groups we played, so we didn't run into problems until the 
last round. After that, discussed Nehemiah in institute. Later, met 
with YC and Kelsey (a replication project group member) to discuss 
our data analysis. YC gave it the stamp of approval, besides 
suggesting adding graphs, which I did. I did the replication write-up 
today. It will need revision, but it's a good feeling to have it all down. 
So, overall I'm in a good place with that and with my Think essay. I 
just need to start heap allocator. Made some plans for my initial 
strategies today. We'll see how that works. 
Was reminded in scripture study to look for the good, not the bad, 
while reading “The Hope of God's Light” 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° PARTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016 AT 1:20 AM 


Good day today. I began heap allocator today, which is why I'm 
writing this at 1:30 in the morning. 

Report from the Front 

I have nothing to offer but bugs, toil, sweat and errors. Yet we will 
fight on to the end. We will fight in malloc. We will fight in the frees. 
We will fight, with growing power and growing confidence 'gainst 
the errors. We will fight on the linked lists and in the gdb and in the 
reallocs and in the size_t's. We will never surrender! 

And that's how you know I need to go to sleep. 

In other news, besides think section and institute, I was nominated to 
be a SoFo for FroSoCo for next year. Basically, they support the staff 
in their activities and make everyone feel welcome. I have no idea 
why I was nominated except for the fact that I'm staying in FroSoCo. 
Ooh, autocorrect suggested “staying in bed.” Good idea. Anyway, 
you get a small stipend and encouragement for social activity, both 
of which I could use. Yay! Last day of Habla. We had a long list of 
thank yous and students did their presentation, including me and 
Nicolas demoing a little workplace conversation. I enjoyed Habla 
and will do it next year. I should find service to do for the summer. 
In scripture study, I learned from Zechariah about my responsibilities 
to be a shepherd as a home teacher and member missionary, rather 
than glutting myself on the benefits of the gospel without sharing 
them with anyone. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, MAY 27, 2016 AT 1:18 AM 

Good day. Lecture by Brian Knutson in Psych, very engaging. 

Report From the Front 

Do not go so gentle into that good fit. Old blocks should burn and 
rage at coalescing. Rage, rage against the fragmentation of the 
heap. Do not go so gentle into that good fit. 

I got malloc and free working. They actually work surprisingly well in 
many cases, even without optimization or a specialized realloc. 
However, they're terrible at utilization in some cases, so I'm trying to 
implement coalescing, which is truly causing me to rant and rage. 
In other news today, after a wonderful Indian dinner over Chorale 
tour briefing and rehearsal, I went to the FroSoCo In-House Draw 
event, which took forever. I think they just decided that they would 
house people permanently in Ricker dining where the event was 
held… 
In scripture study, I reviewed “Refuge from the Storm” and resolved 
to find how to help those who are physical or spiritual refugees. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, MAY 28, 2016 AT 1:57 AM 

Good day today. Last FriFo and last day of CS lecture. 

Report from the Front 

I have a dream today. A dream that utilization and throughput can sit 
down together at the table of brotherhood. A dream that the heap 
will be judged by the correctness of its content, and not by the 
complexity of its allocs. And from every pointer, let free ring! Let it 
ring from the convolution of the reallocs. Let it ring from every bit 
and byte in the free list. From all of memory, let free ring! Till we can 
all say, “Free at last! Free at last!” thank malloc almighty, heap is free 
at last! 

So, I actually made great progress on heap allocator today. I fixed 
the coalesce bug, wrote realloc, and got utilization up to 65% and 
throughput to 83%, which is right where it needs to be for a full 
score. I'll probably do a few more optimizations, but it's mostly 
done. 
As far as the rest of today. We had a Memorial Day performance at a 
senior home with a few members of chorale, which was very freaky 
because we didn't have much time to learn the music and almost 
got there late! It all works out well in the end, however. Also home 
taught Brickelle with Peter over dinner, which was fun. 
Played a bit it Thea: The Awakening, and rescued my children from a 
Rat Witch, among other things. That's it. 
In scripture study, I learned that I should pray not just to get to the 
end, otherwise my offering is polluted. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, MAY 29, 2016 AT 1:29 AM 

Good day today. Worked almost all day. Played a tad at the end, 
then worked more. 

Report from the Front 

Double double linked list trouble. Seg faults burn and malloc 
bubble. Double double linked list trouble debug and the charm is 
good! 

So, I decided to implement a double linked list today, after Kent 
mentioned it in the family call. I'd been on the edge about it 
previously. Anyway, it actually wasn't bad at all. I did it in maybe half 
an hour with minimal errors, since all my linked list stuff was already 
decomposed into its own function. I still have a pernicious big in 
verify heap, but besides that, utilization is at 66% and throughput is 
around 90% (up to 96% when the machine isn't crowded). So I'm 
feeling good about it. I'll just try to see if I can bump up utilization a 
little bit more. 
Besides that, I worked on my Think essay. That was about my day, 
besides slaying a dragon by making it drink too much water in Thea: 
The Awakening. 
In scripture study, I read in Malachi 3 about how it is often easy for us 
to call the proud and the wicked happy. I think if I took a step back 
and thanked God for all my blessings, I'd see otherwise. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, MAY 29, 2016 AT 9:58 AM 

I think this week was good overall. There was a lot of work with my 
classes, but I was able to do some meaningful things, like Habla, 
singing at the retirement home, and home teaching Brickelle. I think 
I also exercised good work ethic in getting Heap Allocator done as 
well as improving my essay for Think. I did play some computer 
games, although I think the strategy of praying over a time to end 
before I started worked quite well. With finals approaching now, I 
won't play any computer games until after I finish my CS finals. First 
things first, have to prioritize my study. I think I did a fairly good job 
of keeping my thoughts clean this week. I just have to make sure to 
avoid any tempting thoughts when playing games. In my scripture 
study, I made a conscious effort to listen while I studied, and a I 
often took some time at the end to try and extract an insight from 
the chapters I read, which seemed to work well. My prayers were 
okay. They suffered from some detrimental sleepiness, but I think I 
did a good job with gratitude. I just need to make sure that I stay 
focused and don't wander mentally and that I don't end the prayer 
abruptly. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° HAZE 

SUNDAY, MAY 29, 2016 AT 11:25 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Went to home teach Jared at church, both he 
and Peter forgot, so we ended up having quite a short lesson after I 
reminded people. Really good talks in church today. Brickelle gave a 
great talk on finding peace in difficult times and the importance of 
contrast in our lives. She said it was inspired from our home teaching 
lesson, although I can take no credit for her awesomeness. 
Submitted my Think essay. So let it be written, so let it be done. 
Made some comments and minor optimizations in heap allocator. 
Once if fix the verify heap bug and go to office hours for 
optimization tricks, and do bug testing, it should be about done. 
In scripture study, I read in Malachi 4 and thought about how I can 
turn my heart to my fathers by making sure to cultivate relationships 
with my family and always treating them with the highest regard 
when I'm with them. 

525 LOS ARBOLES AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2016 AT 12:12 AM 

Good Memorial Day today. Woke up early (well, at 7:00, which is 
early for a holiday) to go to the temple with Bishop Welch. Another 
person who attends BYU and just moved into the ward for the 
summer for an internship at Facebook rode with me. Most of the 
way back he asked the bishop questions about dating and marriage. 
And he's 20. Sigh At least he said he didn't want to get married 
immediately. Anyway, the session was nice, and I had some good 
thoughts about how priesthood leaders and facilitate revelation, but 
some things can only be gotten from God. After we got back, I had 
lunch at Panda Express (dining halls had already closed), which was 
ironic, given that it's Memorial Day, and did homework. For Family 
Home Evening, we went up to Hoover Tower and Bishop Welch 
played the caralon. It's basically a big bell organ that you can only 
play with one finger at a time (and your feet!). He is quite talented, 
and did renditions of a few hymns and other songs, including “It's a 
Small World, After All.” I wonder what people down below thought 
of that one! After that, I went to our SAY release party, where we 
wrapped up a few books to mail off and then had cupcakes and 
reminisced about the past year. The book looks fantastic, and I really 
enjoyed being in SAY and having an excuse to read stories and 
spend time with fun people. Perhaps in the future, I can be an 
officer… After that, I briefly went to office hours for CS to ask about 
optimizations. I didn't get a lot of specific advice, but it did lead me 
to think about rewriting my calculate buckets program to be simpler, 
which got me to a max of 70% utilization and 98% throughput on a 
quiet server, which is well above the benchmarks. So, I think I'll just 
focus on debugging and polishing for the next few days. 
In scripture study, I pondered what topic I should focus on for goal-
oriented study, which I'd like to try this summer. I think I'll start on 
keeping my thoughts clean, especially of sexual temptation. That 
can be an interesting endeavor on a college campus. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

June 2016 

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 1, 2016 AT 12:15 AM 

Good day today. Had last day of Think and Psych lectures. Had 
Chorale rehearsal since we didn't have it yesterday. Eric Tuan led us 
in the glories of psalm pointing. Finished up heap allocator, with max 
utilization and throughout of 72% and 99%. I could try to implement 
a footer, but at this point, we're in extra credit territory, so I should 
spend my time studying or the final instead. Did that for Think today. 
Also played a bit of Thea the Awakening, and lost some of my best 
troops. Curse you permadeath! Better sleep now. 
In scripture study, I studied keeping my thoughts clean, beginning a 
compilation of scriptures, talks, hymns, etc. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016 AT 1:38 AM 

Old day today. Last Think section, also had a review tutorial. Last 
institute class with Bro Rasmussen. Still don't like his dogmatic 
teaching style. Most interesting thing was going with Kent to pick 
out our summer storage unit. Besides that, on track for studying. 
Submitted heap allocator and ready to submit replication project. 
In scripture study, I learned that to be a witness of Christ, I must both 
do good works and let people know of my Faith's so they see that 
my good works come out of that. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, JUNE 3, 2016 AT 12:03 AM 

Good day today. Uneventful, made good study progress, finished 
reading Think notes, CS self-check questions, did some think 
outlines. Home taught Brandon with Peter. Talked about recognizing 
peace when we've reviewed it and being grateful for it. Played some 
of Thea:The Awakening and convinced giant chaos snakes to let me 
live. 
In scripture study, read the First Presidency Message on being a 
mentor, which reminded me that I need to search for service 
opportunities. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, JUNE 3, 2016 AT 11:57 PM 

Good day today. Took CS practice test, which went fairly well. Noted 
a few things I can review. Did a practice Think edsay, which also went 
alrighty, although you have to be blindingly fast to write 3 in an hour 
along with short answer questions. Met with John Donahue, my 
PMA, and we had a nice chat. Read in Time and played some Thea: 
The Awakening. 
In scripture study, I read in Alma 5 and learned about examining 
myself and considering how I would feel in God's presence. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 70° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, JUNE 4, 2016 AT 11:54 PM 

Good day today. Whoa, autocorrect tried to say “iOS day today.” 
Must be subtle advertising. Had brunch with Kent at Stern. Wrote 
another practice Think essay, using pen this time, which was less 
stressful on my hand. Reviewed two labs for CS in addition to doing 
book problems and reviewing some of my errors from the practice 
final. Hopefully the labs are helping me get ready. Just not sure 
about the optimal way to prepare. Played some Thea: the 
Awakening. That's about it for the day. 
In scripture study, I read “Let virtue garnish they my thoughts 
unceasingly” and was reminded that attending the temple frequently 
can be a good buffer against bad thoughts. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, JUNE 5, 2016 AT 10:05 AM 

This week overall went well. It felt kind of unbalanced, with lots of 
projects and assignments due at the beginning, then not anything 
except studying for finals at the end. I'm glad I made the decision to 
go to the temple. It was a nice experience that invited the spirit to 
be with me during the week. I'll want to make sure to attend the 
temple regularly this summer, as I'll hopefully have a more 
predictable schedule. Scripture reading went well this week. I like 
the idea of studying towards a goal, and I think my studies have 
helped me keep my thoughts more clean, or definitely be more 
aware of it. Prayers were mediocre. I could do a better job at ending 
my prayers with listening instead of trailing off into la la land or 
jumping into bed. I played some computer games this week, 
because, as I mentioned, I didn't have tons to do during the second 
half of the week. I think the pray before using and set an end time 
strategy really helped me to keep my playtime reasonable. I should 
make sure to continue to balance that play with other activities over 
the summer, when I might have more time. Oh yes, I should also sign 
up for summer institute classes and figure out some service that I can 
do over the summer. I'm excited that Mom and Dad are coming this 
week, so I'll make sure to prioritize spending time with them. This 
week is also the one year anniversary of me returning from my 
mission. Over scripture study, I'd like to review some of the things 
that I wrote then. It will be a good self check of where I am now 
compared to my ideas of a year ago. Next week I'll be getting ready 
to leave for England. How exciting! 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JUNE 5, 2016 AT 10:39 PM 

Good fast Sunday today. Met with Connor and Andrew at the church 
early to do home teaching. Talked about mentor ship. Connor's 
working on a CS+ Social Good project developing a site for Syrian 
refugee acclimation, and he invited me to help, which is just the kind 
of summer project I'm looking for. Nice testimonies during the 
meeting, including a good one about how the regrets of many great 
leaders were that they didn't prioritize their family. Kent came over 
for our family Skype call and dinner. It sounds like Mom's had a 
rough week. Not only did she not get the Ohio State job, but Poets 
and Quants wrote an article about the new dean with some 
disparaging remarks about her legacy (apparently prompted by 
some disgruntled faculty member whose center was shut down 
because he did no teaching and was using it as a shell for his private 
consulting business.) Alas, in the immortal words of Taylor Swift, 
“Haters gonna hate.” Did some final exam prep, including another 
practice essay for Think. D-Day is tomorrow (both literally and 
figuratively). At this point, I just want to be done with these exams. 
Well, to bed early. 
In scripture study, I read President Eyring's most recent conference 
talk about building eternal families. I think at this point, the best 
thing I can do is prepare to become a good father and husband by 
refining myself and seeking out meaningful relationships where I can 
develop my skills in functioning with other people. Wow, that sounds 
awkward. Long story short, self-improvement, go on dates. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2016 AT 10:58 PM 

Good day today. Took my Think Final in the morning, which went 
well. I think my essays were more coherent than the practice ones I 
wrote, and I was able to finish all of them, which was good. After the 
test and lunch, I participated in a study run by Ben, an LDS music, 
science, and technology grad student. I pressed keys on the 
keyboard as they lit up, while tones played (apparently he compared 
me against people with instrument experience). After that, I looked 
up info about candidates and ballot measure to (hopefully) vote 
tomorrow. I did the last CS lab and my course evals and institute 
final assessment. I also updated my graphics drivers in anticipation 
to getting Total War: Warhammer (after the CS final), because any 
game that has war in its title twice clearly needs updated graphics 
drivers. Anyway, I'm at a bit of a loss as to what to do besides study, 
so I did a bit of reading of the news and stuff. Tomorrow I'll study, 
vote, and write Dad's Father's day card. 
In scripture study, I learned that letting virtue garnish my thoughts 
leads me to be attracted to like-minded people who also seek virtue. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 2016 AT 10:28 PM 

Good day today. Not much happened. I continued to study for CS. I 
just want to get it over with. I went to vote and had to CAs a 
provisional ballot (of course), but it looks like Clinton is winnings 
California anyway, so hopefully that puts the Bernie in his place so 
the Democrats can unite against crazy Donald Trump. I signed a card 
Kent got for Madre after her rough week last week (see her 
Evernote), and wrote a Father's Day card for Padre. I also cleaned 
my room in preparation for moving out. I downloaded Total War: 
Warhammer and booted it up to finish the install process, but didn't 
play it, as per my commitment to abstain from playing until after the 
final. I read the most recent half of my notebook, did Lab 4, 
answered all of the self-check questions I hadn't yet reviewed, did 
some book exercises, looked over the practice final, and looked at 
Piazza questions. Hopefully my preparation has been sufficient. 
In scripture study, I finished reading “Let Virtue Garnish Thy 
Thoughts” and learned to rely on both the cleansing and the 
strengthening power of the Atonement in keep my my thoughts 
clean. Additionally, it is important for me not to ruminate on fighting 
to have clean thoughts, that's counterproductive. Just do good and 
good thoughts will come of it. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° PARTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 8, 2016 AT 12:44 AM 

Okay, I'm filling this is later, but I figure that my journal should be 
complete. After waiting forever, I finally took my CS final! It went 
well. I was able to answer all the questions reasonably and had time 
to check my work (spoiler, I got a 90% on the test.) After that, I 
turned in my books at the bookstore and officially ended my 
freshman year at Stanford. It seems like just yesterday that I was 
walking with Kent and Dad on Sand Hill road before the start of the 
school year and learning about Concepción Estrada San Josef Misuri 
and his “childres.” After finishing everything, I rewarded myself by 
playing “Total War: Warhammer,” which is like every other total war 
game except with orcs. I've decided that I'm not very good at it. 
In scripture study, I learned that chastity is a gift to my future wife. 

52.6793° N, 0.868028° E 

THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016 AT 12:54 AM 

Good day today. Once again, filling this in after the fact. But, to be 
clear, this entry is for Thursday, June 9th. Despite school being over, 
I had to wake up early to go to a chorale rehearsal for 
commencement, family concert, and tour. That took most of the 
morning, after which I had lunch and played a bit before getting 
picked up by Mom and Dad, who flew in today, and Kent at 3:00. 
Thus ended my rather short break of less than 24 hours as I'd now be 
consumed by graduation events until leaving for your. I spent some 
time with them at the Stanford Park Hotel before going to dinner 
with Mooples at Patsy's, a nice French restaurant on California 
Avenue. 
In scripture study, I learned that, because the soul is the spirit and he 
body, my spiritual well-being is inextricably linked to how I treat my 
body. 

52.6547° N, 0.701916° E 

SATURDAY, JUNE 11, 2016 AT 1:14 AM 

Good day today. Went with Kent to pick up new parking permit, 
then had lunch with the family at Joya's. We then languished in the 
hotel and I watched some videos on R. We took tons of graduation 
pictures for Kent around Stanford, and had dinner at Terún and ice 
cream at the Tin Pot. Attended Kent's induction into Phi Beta Kappa 
tonight. 
In scripture study, I learned that focusing on doing good is often 
more productive than simply focusing on avoiding evil. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, JUNE 12, 2016 AT 12:43 AM 

Good day today. Went to Kent's Baccalaureate in the morning, and 
broiled in the sun. After that, had a nice Mediterranean lunch at ZAP 
with the family. Went to see he movie “Me Before You” about a 
caretaker falling in love with her quadriplegic patient. Not my first 
voice, but it's Kent's weekend. It was good. After that, went to 
Stanford Park Hotel and finished another chapter of my course in R. 
We then went to dinner at the Village Inn, which is supposedly 
Michelin Star restaurant. It was certainly expensive, I'll say that! After 
some more languishing at SPH, went back to my dorm and did 
laundry. Kent's been trying to convince the family to go on a trip in 
September, instead of everyone meeting in Michigan. Now, I don't 
particularly feel the need for a trip right before school, but I can 
tolerate one. He suggested Austin, which sounded intriguing, but 
now he wants to go to the Grand Canyon, instead of Austin. This is 
starting to feel like another New York, where I got dragged on a trip 
that I didn't enjoy that much, which was a sad waste of money, and 
on top of it all, I had the stress of working on my Juntos data 
assignment. I think I could have stayed home without losing much. I 
guess what annoys me is when I have very low late cry turnarounds. 
Sometime I just want a day to do nothing. For example, this week I 
finished my final on Wednesday afternoon, then I had a rehearsal on 
Thursday morning, met my parents on Thursday afternoon, and have 
been doing events all day with family and will do so until Sunday 
evening, then I leave for England the next day. I guess I don't get joy 
from living a packed life. 
In scripture study, I reflected on my return from my mission, one year 
ago today. I actually felt like I've been doing well at many of the 
habits I wanted to establish. Want to do better at temple attendance 
this summer. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 70° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, JUNE 12, 2016 AT 10:09 PM 

I can't believe my freshman year is over. I can't believe that it's been 
a year since I got back from my mission (and therefore three years 
since I left). How the time flies. Well, I guess I can take this chance to 
reflect both on the week and on the year. Looking at the goals that I 
set on the day of my return from my mission, I'm actually quite 
pleased with how I've been doing. My scripture study and prayer 
habits have been very consistent. I have worked very hard in school 
and been blessed for my efforts. I have been able to continue doing 
missionary work in many ways. I'd like to improve on strengthening 
my relationships with my family and friends, including dating. Maybe 
after I get back from England, I can ask Brickelle to go out with me 
and see a movie. I think studying having clean thoughts has helped 
me somewhat. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016 AT 1:13 PM 


This journal entry will cover from the morning of June 13th to the 
present, as it all felt like one big day to me. It started off all normally, 
shower, breakfast, scripture study, packing. I had a thought that I 
should take my shampoo and little shower cubby to my room, but I 
said “Nah, I'll do it later.” When I came back to get it, my shampoo 

was gone! .. Should've listened to the prompting. Anyway, at 1:00 
pm, I trundled over to Tressider with my suitcase and got on the bus 
with chorale to depart to England! The trip was uneventful, and the 
flight, although ten hours, didn't seem terribly long. There was a nice 
dinner, I read in Phil Zimbardo's book “The Lucifer Effect” on why 
good people do bad things, including a very in-depth walkthrough 
of the Stanford Prison Experiment. I also watched “Spectre,” the 
most recent James Bond movie, which was fine, but totally 
predictable. I slept for a little bit, maybe 2-3 hours fitfully. All in all, it 
didn't seem like that much longer than the flight to Michigan, 
perhaps because I'd given up on the idea of falling asleep 
immediately. After our arrival, we boarded a coach for a three hour 
ride to Norwich, where we are now. I went to Evensong at Norwich 
Cathedral with Eric, Steve, and his wife, which was an interesting 
experience. Very ritualized and lots of sitting, standing, and kneeling. 
Had a lovely dinner, now preparing to go to bed. 
In scripture study, I learned that personal purity is a process. 

2–4 PIGG LANE, NORWICH, ENGLAND, UNITED KINGDOM • 59° PARTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016 AT 12:36 AM 


Good day today. Had rehearsal at Norwich Cathedral in the morning 
as we struggled to sync the organ and the choir. After that we took a 
tour of cathedral, which was built in the 12th century after an 
ambitious bishop bribed the king of England to do so. Had a nice 
lunch in a cafe that was built in the 15th century. It's crazy to think 
how these places are older than the oldest European buildings in 
America. After a nice informal concert in the cathedral, we took a 
walking tour of Norwich, including various churches built of flint. 
There was one building that supposedly had wood from some of the 
ships in the Spanish Armada. In the evening, we went to dinner at 
the Wig and Pen pub, and other people proceeded to get drunk. I 
did not imbibe of the alcohol, but did have a yummy tart. After that, 
I went to bed early after attempting and failing to read. 
I reviewed the Word of Wisdom in scripture study today. I've 
definitely been blessed with great treasures of knowledge for 
obeying it, like getting an A+ in CS 107, which I found out today! I 
can't believe it, definitely a big blessing and answer to my prayers. 

52.682° N, 1.03204° E 

THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016 AT 3:17 PM 


Good day today. Woke up early and departed Norwich for Ely, a bus 
ride of about two hours. There's a lovely Cathedral there, and we 
practiced in the Lady's Chapel, which has absolutely gorgeous 
acoustics. We then had a concert in the main choir stalls, which went 
well. After a quick lunch at a nearby sandwich shop, we took a tour 
of the octagon tower, continuing my family tradition of climbing to 
the highest accessible point in old buildings. We then departed for 
Cambridge, and at dinner after arriving at a nice local restaurant, 
which lasted over two hours. Then played some cards with friends. 
In scripture study, I read in 2 Nephi 2 about the need for the 
Atonement, and how it is inextricably tied with our Ned for 
opposition in life. 

5 SCROOPE TERRACE, CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND, UNITED KINGDOM • 57° SHOWERS 

SATURDAY, JUNE 18, 2016 AT 12:41 AM 


Good day today. After breakfast at the hotel, started the day with a 
walking tour of Cambridge. We saw King's College, a very old 
library, a pub where Watson and Crick announced the discovery of 
DNA, and Queen's College, where we sang later today. We also saw 
the sumptuous dining halls for faculty and students, adorned with 
paintings of William Wilberforce and Wordsworth. After the tour, we 
grabbed some lunch at Marks and Spencer's, and walked around 
town a bit. We came back at 3:30 to practice for Evensong in 
Queens, which we sang at 5:30. The organ has this amusing feature 
where it plays these little bells and a star on it spins. After Evensong, 
we had a short reception where our hosts offered wine and some 
tasty Elderflower juice, then went off to dinner at various locations. I 
ate at an Indian place with Steve's family and some other people, 
and it was quite good. We got back to the hotel around 10, and I 
crashed into bed by 11, only to be awakened rather rudely less than 
an hour later by the fire alarm. We were all marched outside for 20 
to 30 minutes while they determined the cause of the alarm. Well, at 
least nothing burned down. 
In scripture study, I learned that the first step in exercising faith is 
making space in our hearts. 

5 SCROOPE TERRACE, CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND, UNITED KINGDOM • 54° MOSTLY 
CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JUNE 19, 2016 AT 3:54 AM 


Good day today. Busy. We had a master class with the legendary 
Steven Cleobury in the morning (or at least, I assume he's legendary. 
I hadn't actually heard of him before.) We sang in Queen's College 
Chapel and worked on “Coronation Te Deum” and a little bit of 
“Even Such Is Time.” He's been billed as rather crotchety, but he 
was generally quite nice and had good ideas, except that he kept 
saying to undo certain things that Steve had specifically told us to 
do, like carrying through a note where we had rested or performing 
something piano that we'd consistently been asked to do louder. Oh 
well, such is music. After the master class, I caught lunch with some 
other chorale members at some famous chicken place. They were 
super crowded, so we got take out and ate on a filed while watching 
people play soccer with these big inflatable bubbles around their 
torsos, which was hilarious, especially when they bumped each 
other. After a brief rest in he hotel, we went back to rehearsal and 
sang another Evensong in St. John's College Chapel. My voice was 
tired from singing a lot, but it went well, even though the evil dove 
was our anthem. After that, a group of us got dinner at Nanna 
Mexico's, because Kimberly convinced us of the merits of trying 
geographically inappropriate food. It was alright, kind of like 
Chipotle. I got their “spicy” sauce and could barely taste the kick at 
all. After that, we went to get dessert at a bar. The food was fine, but 
IMHO it was not worth the ambient cigarette smoke, loud noise, and 
alcohol. Alas. 
In scripture study, I learned that wasting the days of my probation by 
doing nothing with them is almost as bad as active winning. Either 
way, I fail to accomplish the purpose of this life. 

52.1848° N, 0.166063° E 

SUNDAY, JUNE 19, 2016 AT 3:54 AM 

Well, it's been an exciting week full of travel. It's been an enjoyable 
trip so far (although I'm not sure any more enjoyable than Solana 
Beach, but here I am, so I can't complain.) Concerts have gone well, 
and I think I've been able to get to know group members better. It 
was really nice to be able to go to church today, since I wasn't able 
to go last week and won't be able to go next week. I definitely felt 
the Spirit taking the sacrament and just an overall feeling of peace 
and thanks as I partook of the water. Being with chorale people while 
they're drinking and stuff definitely makes me feel different, a little 
apart, but it's not a bad thing. Drinking alcohol is definitely one of 
those things where I have no desire to do evil. I guess that's a 
fulfillment of scriptural promises. I don't feel like I've experienced 
too much temptation on this trip, mostly been busy and tired. I've 
kept up prayer and scripture study, although I could be more 
focused during both of them. Had good family communication via 
texting. Should be sure to write in my Evernote. 

52.1861° N, 0.158403° E 

SUNDAY, JUNE 19, 2016 AT 3:31 PM 


Good Sabbath today. I went to church in the morning. After 
determining that the bus would talks me just as long as walking, I 
walked the two and a half miles to the chapel. Unfortunately, 
because all of our concert wear was locked in a building at the 
University somewhere, I had no tie and no nice shoes! Despite 
feeling rather dressed down, I received a nice welcome. Smallish 
ward, very conventional talks. The children sang an adorable 
rendition of “I'm so glad when daddy comes home.” with their 
British accents. After sacrament meeting, I took the bus back to near 
the hotel. I realized that our call was 5:00, not 2:00, so I had quite a 
bit of time. I went to the Fitzwilliam Museum right next to our hotel, 
which is massive, and had lunch at the cafe. I spent maybe two and a 
half hours looking at antiquities and an hour looking art, which is a 
good balance for me. We had our last concert (a real concert, not an 
Evensong this time) in the St. John's chapel this evening. I'm pretty 
sure that Heavenly Father must have blessed my voice not to die, as 
I survived the Dove and its evil Cs. After that, had dinner of fish and 
chips at the Eagle and packed. 
In scripture study/church, learned that recognizing our weaknesses 
leads to growth. 

5 SCROOPE TERRACE, CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND, UNITED KINGDOM • 64° MOSTLY 
CLOUDY 

MONDAY, JUNE 20, 2016 AT 2:23 PM 


Good day today. Left Cambridge in the morning, and took a four 
hour trip by bus to the Peak District. We picked up some food at a 
supermarket to take on our hike. We spent most of the day hiking in 
the Peak District, which is absolutely beautiful. It was drizzling and 
overcast as we walked, which I actually liked, as it kept us cool and 
make the valley beautiful with dappled sunlight. It also made the 
hike rather muddy, and the first part of it involved trekking through 
these sheep pastures on a very narrow, muddy trail. We got quite 
muddy, but after that the trail broadened to become more grassy 
and rocky. We climbed up to the top of the hill in the area, then 
walked across the ridge to the tops of a few other hills before going 
down into the countryside and having dinner at a local pub, where I 
split the steak pie with someone. We then returned to our hotel, 
which is quite swanky, in Chesterfield. 
In scripture study, I learned that converging my health through 
positive aspects (like good diet and exercise) is also an important 
part of maintaining the temple of my body. In fact, it's important not 
to neglect the positive aspects of the commandments. 

LOCKOFORD LANE, CHESTERFIELD, ENGLAND, UNITED KINGDOM • 59° MOSTLY 
CLEAR 

TUESDAY, JUNE 21, 2016 AT 4:28 PM 


Good day today. In the morning, went to Chatsworth, a massive, 
Versailles-like mansion in the countryside near Chesterfield. It has 
massive gardens and grounds with lots of water features, which I 
walked around for about an hour and a half. I only left about 45 
minutes for the house, which wasn't nearly enough time to see it. It 
totally blew me away, especially the full ceiling and wall mural in the 
main room (there were paintings on the ceiling in quite a few of the 
rooms). It was just so opulent. One hall was full of antiquities from 
Egypt to the sea, and another was lined entirely with paintings, a 
private art gallery. Every time you looked, you saw more wealth on 
display. In one room, there were intricately carved wooden busts. 
Then I noticed that under the busts were some paintings set into the 
wood-paneled walls. The. I noticed that under the paintings there 
were China cabinets! It's crazy to think that some people live like this 
while billions of others live on less than a dollar a day. Can't we do a 
little more to equalize that? After Chatsworth, we spent a little time 
in the charming town of Bakewell, which was indeed swarmed with 
bakeries. (And famous for its tart, which I did try. Delicious. I also had 
a yummy lamb and leek lie for lunch there.) After a rest in the hotel, 
we went to the Chesterfield Church for rehearsal and a concert, 
which went well overall. We had a late dinner at Einstein's, a posh 
restaurant downtown, where I enjoyed goat cheese salad, chicken 
schnitzel, and a chocolate torte. 
In scripture study, I learned that God can help change our desires so 
we don't want evil things. 

LOCKOFORD LANE, CHESTERFIELD, ENGLAND, UNITED KINGDOM • 59° MOSTLY 
CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 22, 2016 AT 4:06 PM 


Good day today. Left Chesterfield in the morning and rode on the 
bus to Newstead Abbey (which had actually been a priory, not an 
abbey, but the name was changed during the dissolution of the 
monasteries under Henry VIII. It later passed into the Byron family 
and was owned by the famous poet, Lord Byron. Byron was also a 
serial womanizer and quite adventurous, dying in his thirties while 
fighting in the Greek war of independence against the Ottoman 
Turks. His relationships were quite shallow, except with his beloved 
dog Boatswain (pronounced BOT-sun). He erected a large 
monument with an engraved poem extolling the virtues of dogs 
upon Boatswain's death. He wanted to be buried alongside him, but 
had sold the estate by the time he died. After touring the estate and 
gardens, we took the bus to Nottingham, which is a fairly large city. 
We grabbed some lunch in the central market, then took a walking 
tour of the city with a very sassy elderly guide. I'm not sure if 
anything she said was true, but it was quite funny. The tour ended in 
one of the hundreds of man-made caves under the city, used to 
store ale and other foodstuffs, hold parties, and occasionally for 
criminal activities. After a nap at the hotel, we went to Ye Olde Trip 
to Jerusalem for dinner, pictured above. It's one of the oldest pubs 
in England, supposedly frequented by Crusaders. We are in a 
sandstone room partially built into a cave. Very cool. Then played 
some Nertz to end the night. 
In scripture study, I learned that I should use my voice to advocate 
for good in the media, and say that there are some things that are 
simply not appropriate. 

NOTTINGHAM, ENGLAND, UNITED KINGDOM • 64° PARTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, JUNE 23, 2016 AT 3:40 PM 


Good day today. In the morning went to Melton Mobray, where we 
tasted different cheeses, yummy (Stilton, Leicester, which was my 
favorite), and pork pie, which I personally don't consider yummy. 
After that, we returned to the hotel and I grabbed a quick salad at 
Tesco, hen went to the Nottingham Castle, which actually isn't a 
castle (just has the foundations, the rest was torn down by Cromwell 
because it's where Charles II declared civil war), but it does have 
some nice grounds, and excellent view of the city (above), and an art 
gallery, which was rather eclectic and included a special exhibition 
by one artist on the decadence of society, of course. After that, we 
had a concert in St. Mary's Church, which went well. I felt like my 
voice was much better rested than in most of the previous concerts, 
and even the Dove wasn't that bad. Today was also the day of the 
Brexit vote. We'll hear the results tomorrow, sounds like it's leaning 
remain, which I think is a good thing. 
In scripture study, I learned of several strategies Satan tried to use to 
trap us, including blurring the lines between good and evil, or 
desensitizing us. That's why we need the Spirit to remain aware. 

PEVERIL DRIVE, NOTTINGHAM, ENGLAND, UNITED KINGDOM • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, JUNE 24, 2016 AT 3:41 AM 


Good day today. Left Nottingham in the morning and went to 
Stratford-on-Avon. After a lovely lunch at a WWII-themes tea room 
called the “Fourteas,” we toured Shakespeare's childhood house, 
which I'm surprised is still standing. Apparently, when you slept, your 
mattress was suspended on ropes, so you'd have to tighten them 
every fees nights so the mattress didn't sag. Thus the saying “sleep 
tight.” After touring the house, we got in the bus and visited the 
local church where Shakespeare is buried. Apparently since so many 
people wanted to be buried in the church, it was common practice 
to exhume the remains of those previously buried and burn their 
bones, replacing them with the more recently deceased. So 
Shakespeare inscribed this poem on his gravestone cursing anyone 
who moved his bones. After seeing the church and narrowly missing 
getting soaked by rain, we briefly drove by Anne Hathaway's house, 
then were dropped off in the middle of the city to explore on our 
own for a while. I was with a group that wandered rather aimlessly in 
search of dinner, until a few of us finally went to a Thai restaurant, 
which was quite tasty (and where we ran into Steve and his family, 
which was the second time that happened for me, the first time 
being in Nottingham when I ran into them in the hotel lobby having 
lunch when I went there to eat my Tesco salad. Nor would it be the 
last (see tomorrow)). After dinner, we went to the theatre to see “Dr. 
Faustus”, put on by the Royal Shakespeare Company. It was 
eeenteresting, rather gory and disturbing. Basically, Fautus can't be 
satisfied studying anything but magic, so he makes a deal with the 
devil to get power for 24 years in exchange for giving away his soul. 
There was a lot of modern staging, like a weirdly musical theatre 
number in which the seven deadly sins presented themselves. 
Faustus also painted an actual pentagram on stage during his 
incantations, and there was lots of fake blood when he cut his arm to 
seal his oath. Of course, at the end, he's anguished and his 
summoned demonic servant Methisophiles kills him, presumably 
taking his soul. Moral of the story, don't make a deal with the devil. I 
didn't particularly like the play, but it did leave to some interesting 
conversations afterward about death. Several people said that when 
they contemplated death, the end, they felt sick to their stomachs. I 
don't feel the same way. For me, the gospel lets me face death with 
integrity, not regret, and even have hope for a better world. That's a 
great blessing. I read in my scriptures tonight about “this life is the 
time for men to prepare to meet God.” If we do no, I think we will 
one day have an anguished realization like Faustus about how we 
have squanders our precious time here. 

51.5167° N, 0.499638° W 

SATURDAY, JUNE 25, 2016 AT 8:44 AM 


Good day today. In the morning/early afternoon, I went over to 
Kenilworth Castle, which is just a half mile from our hotel, taking a 
walk through a lovely park. The castle is actually a ruin, being 
partially destroyed by parliament after the English Civil War, as they 
didn't want it to be used as a defensive position by some 
troublemaker. There also happened to be a medieval fair going on 
that day, so I got to see long women shooting at targets (and 
armored Frenchmen), falconry, and jousting (although the latter was 
called off early due to rain. It actually rained several time a during 
the day, coming on suddenly and forcefully but only lasting 15 
minutes or so.) I actually ran into the Sanos at the fair, and they very 
kindly lent me an umbrella, as I'd only brought a raincoat. Around 

2:30 or so, I decided that I'd seen enough of the castle and wanted 
to get a late lunch, so I walked down the street, passing several 
other restaurants on the way, to a local tea room. Who should I run 
into there but the Sanos again! They must think I was stalking them. 
After a lovely lunch of a coronation chicken sandwich and hot 
chocolate, I went back to the hotel and took care of some business, 
then practiced our secret song for Steve, which was a rewording of 
“Gaudeamos Omnes in Domino” to describe our trip. We then had 
our final concert in the Kenilworth chapel, which was coast, but well-
attended. After a late dinner at a local restaurant called “The 
Alchemist,” we had our end of your circle, where we turned in all our 
music tear and ties and subfuscs. Key tour staffers got cards and 
gifts, and everyone in chorale got an “award.” Mine was for best 
smile/laugh. After that, which went surprisingly quickly, we read the 
chorale story. The chorale story is a fantastical compilation of writing 
from each chorale member, who each write two pages, incorporating 
tour jokes and such, then leave one sentence on the next page for 
the next writer to read to continue the story. (If you're the next writer, 
you can't read anything that has been written previously except that 
sentence. This makes for a disjointed but amusing story.) The chorale 
story is read in its entirety on the last night of tour. I have to say, it 
was quite hilarious, although reading it did take until two in the 
morning, by which time I was thoroughly ready to go to bed. 
In scripture study, I studied more about death, inspired by my 
musings on “Dr. Faustus.” I am truly grateful that the sting of death 
is swallowed up in Christ. 

SUNDAY, JUNE 26, 2016 AT 9:07 AM 

This week was well-occupied with travel. I think that generally kept 
me out of trouble. I felt like my thoughts were clean, and I did do 
scripture study and prayer consistently, although I wasn't always as 
focused on them as I am when I can do them sitting quietly at home. 
One thing I could have done better was taking the opportunity to 
share my beliefs and perspective more during the conversation 
about death instead of checking out. One thing the play did make 
me think of is “improving my time” while on this earth, and making 
sure to engage in service over the summer. I have the refugee thing 
this week, but I should search out other opportunities. And go on 
dates. Not this weekend, unfortunately, because I'm traveling 
(again). I enjoyed this trip very much, but I still need to decide about 
doing chorale next year. I'm leaning towards yes, which means I'll 
have to keep my voice up over the summer and prepare an audition 
piece, sight reading, etc. I'll have to pray about it though. I'm both 
excited and nervous about starting at Juntos this week. I've tried to 
prepare by reviewing R, and I feel like using it for the Psych 
replication project was helpful. I'll just ask for help and guidance with 
that as well in my prayers. Looking forward to spending time with my 
family next weekend, I'll have to be sure to make the most of it. 

SUNDAY, JUNE 26, 2016 AT 9:08 AM 

Good Sabbath today. Woke up in Kenilworth and finished packing. 
Got on the bus to Heathrow, where I said my final goodbyes to the 
many chorale members who aren't going back to SF. Security was a 
hassle for some reason. First they directed me from the metal 
detector to the full body scanner, then this guy had to swab my 
shoes to check for explosives. My bag also got arrested, searched, 
and swabbed, even though they didn't find anything objectionable 
in it. When I got to the gate, I was selected for secondary screening, 
including a pat down, removing my shoes, and another bag search. 
Sigh Anyway, I picked up a small lunch snack in the airport, as well as 
a book for Kent, as I hadn't been able to find a souvenir for him 
earlier. The flight was uneventful, just sitting there for 10 hours. I 
watched the “Peanuts” movie, which was nice light fun, 
incorporating old standby motifs like Snoopy hunting the Red Baron 
and the reflection postscript on the wall. I also watched “The Finest 
Hours” about a coast guard ship going to rescue a stranded crew off 
the coast of Maine in a heavy storm. It was very good, kind of like 
Apollo 13 on the ocean. But not quite as good as Apollo 13 because 
it wasn't in space. After returning by bus to Stanford, I said my 
goodbyes to the last of the tour group, and returned to my room, 
where I met my new roommate (who's from BYU, incidentally), and 
unpacked. Now I'd better go to bed. 
In scripture study, I learned that one reason we have death is that it 
gives life meaning by bounding it. Otherwise our decisions would be 
infinitesimally unimportant in the eternal scheme of things. 

MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2016 AT 10:30 PM 

Good day today. First day of work went well. Drove there only to 
realize I didn't know where to park (oh no!) so I ended up in public 
parking and later moved my car to the garage at Juntos. Sat in on 
some meetings to start, then got briefed on Kettle, the data cleaning 
tool, and was able to practice with that for the rest of the afternoon. 
In scripture study, I studied the first presidency messages on 
pioneers, and reflected on my many ancestors who have been 
pioneers and how they have influenced my life for good. Presumably 
I should pay it forward. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° CLEAR 

TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016 AT 3:14 PM 

Good second day of work. I got trained on the configuration tool 
that's used to set up the text-message experiences that the users 
receive. Basically, you are given the messages and then link all the 
logic that controls them together, like when to send messages and 
what messages to send if the users give a certain response. I also 
met with Frances, who checked in on how I'm doing and was 
envious that I get to take a trip to Minnesota. After work, I had 
dinner with Kent, and we caught up since England. 
In scripture study, I that, instead of just focusing on doing big good 
works, I should also do many small good things, the effects of which 
will accumulate over time. 

44.9891° N, 93.1908° W 

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 29, 2016 AT 10:59 PM 

Good day today. In work, learned about Lentils and Shiny, after 
Dante battled to download the packages for a while. I played around 
a little bit in R to figure out how those tools worked, as well as get 
acquainted with the dplyr package, which is like magic. You just cast 
the group_by incantation and then summarise and then the answer 
comes out! I also had a one-on-one with Caleb, a software engineer, 
who I spent 30 minutes getting to know, except he kept asking and 

me about my post-graduation plans and I was like, “.. Don't ask me 
about things I don't know! Too far ahead!” 
In scripture study, started to study charity, which I will show by doing 
good works. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° CLEAR 

THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016 AT 3:35 PM 

Good day today. I did some configurations on my own in work, and 
was able to test them in simulation and they seemed to work well, 
yay! I also sat in on a data meeting with Kyle, in which the meaning 
of certain spikes against the control of inactive user transactions 
were discussed. I got a few follow-up assignments from that, 
including determining the sample size of a certain test group. It was 
nice to actually go into R with a definite goal and pull out the 
answer. After work, I spent some time putting together content for a 
guide for refugees in the Bay Area. My part was on what to do in 
case of a health emergency and how to open a bank account. I feel 
like this stuff is readily available online, but it may be helpful to have 
it all collected in one place and formatted nicely, especially for those 
who aren't computer literate or don't have Internet access. 
In scripture study, I learned that I learned that choosing to respond 
with love even in situations where I'm not at fault is an example of 
charity. 

44.989° N, 93.191° W 

July 2016 

FRIDAY, JULY 1, 2016 AT 10:28 PM 

Good day. This will cover both Friday and Saturday, since the resets 
flight to Minnesota merged it into one giant groggy day. At work, I 
had several meetings, including a chapter retrospective and a 
meeting with Erico, who basically said, “the way you're presenting 
data is all wrong.” I also got to work on answering the question of 
what happens to inactive users who are reactivated by Juntos in the 
long term. I still have a lot to look at, but the short answer appears 
to be that they drop off after 5 weeks or so. Jonathan, a guy in sales 
working remotely, logged into this iPad on a stick with wheels and 
rolled around Juntos with a Darth Vader avatar playing the Imperial 
March. It was very Juntos. Traveled to MN, celebrated Fourth of July 
early with Clark, Missie, Grammie and Grandpa, and Mom and Dad 
in St. Cloud on the banks of the Mississippi, just like old times. 
In scripture study, learned that I should say “I love you” with my 
actions. 

45.4825° N, 94.1231° W 

SUNDAY, JULY 3, 2016 AT 9:10 PM 

Good day today. Left Uncle Clark and Aunt Missy's house in the 
morning and went to church in Plymouth, where we were able to 
meet up with lots of old friends, like the Wests, the Smiths, and the 
Perrys. After sacrament meeting and Sunday school, we left to drive 
by our old house, which looked the same except for taller trees. It 
was weird how the drive kind of felt like we'd never left, even though 
it's been three years since I graduated from high school. We also 
visited Wayzata, which is as massive as ever and looks like it's 
getting another auditorium. After that, we went to Grammie and 
Grandpa's house, where we're staying the night, for a nice lunch of 
Cobb sad, rolls, and berry pavlova. Kent left to spend some time 
with Nathan, and Mooples and I napped/watched “To Kill a 
Mockingbird.” I helped Grandpa find this former stake president he 
wanted to reconnect with online, and we all played “Head's Up” to 
top off the night. 
In scripture study, I pondered Helaman 12:2, about our tendency to 
abandon God in the very moment He blesses us. Given the big 
blessing of a summer internship, I should take extra care to 
remember how directly Heavenly Father intervened to answer my 
fasts and prayers to get me my job, and the blessings, privileges, 
and responsibilities of my life more generally. 

2148 FOLWELL AVE, FALCON HEIGHTS, MN, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, JULY 6, 2016 AT 11:35 PM 

Good day. Did data analysis at work, finishing up determining what 
happens to reactivated users. Talked with Sheetal for a while and 
showed her my England pics. 
In Hearts of Iron, I invaded Greece as Italy, successfully avoiding 
British intervention. Now we wait. 
In scripture study, learned that the our desires, rather than ability, 
dictate who we become. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, JULY 10, 2016 AT 7:40 PM 

This week, I started to get more into the swing of things at work. I'd 
like to establish some good habits for this summer, now that my 
travel has ended and I'll be in one place for a while (more on that 
later). I felt particularly tempted by sexual thoughts this week and I'm 
not sure why. Perhaps it's because I haven't been able to go to a full 
session of church or institute for a while. I didn't break down 
completely and let them in, but they were still on the fringes of my 
mind too much. Perhaps occupying myself with more projects of 
value will be helpful in crowding them out. I also want to listen to 
more church music (for example, during my commute), and if I feel 
particularly tempted, I can always go out on a run to get some 
exercise, which should help as well. I should also try to go to the 
temple soon and regularly, which will help me have a goal in mind 
and have the spirit with me. I'm really grateful that Jared invited me 
to prepare the sacrament this week, it helped me have a goal to 
work toward and a clear and immediate reason to resist temptation. 
This week, I didn't do much outside work, besides go to the 
Exploratorium (which was a direct answer to my fast on Friday about 
filling my summer with good activities). In the upcoming week, I'd 
like to get more involved, including going to institute on Tuesday, 
the Vienna Teng concert on Saturday, and perhaps inviting someone 
on a date to see a movie on Friday. Additionally, I'd like to adopt a 
summer coding project, perhaps this Swift thing that Kent is 
interested in, and continue with service for the refugee thing and 
sign up with them to help in the future. Of course, I can still play 
computer games, but not as much as this last week. I watched some 
more of “Man in the High Castle” this week, and I think it's too 
gory/explicit for me to continue watching. There are better things I 
can do with my time. Oh yes, I should also probably practice singing 
if I want to do chorale next year. If Steve emails me, I should ask him 
about good things to practice. Those things should help me fill my 
time well with activities of value. 
Prayer and scripture study have been consistent. I should continue to 
strive for focus and meaning in both. Institute may help give 
direction to my studies. Oh yes, I should also do a better job at 
keeping up my journal every night. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 77° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, JULY 10, 2016 AT 10:37 PM 

Good Sabbath today. I didn't set an alarm and woke up at 11:45 
today, eekers! I also missed part of the family call, which I thought 
was at 5:00 but was actually at 11:00. I guess I'll be setting an alarm 
from now on… It was really nice to be able to go back to church in 
my home ward. Jared Weaver had asked me to prepare the 
sacrament, which I haven't done in a long time and really 
appreciated doing. I felt the Spirit while taking the sacrament too, 
mostly in a feeling of gratitude for Christ's Atonement, after thinking 
this morning about how frequently I mess up. The talks were also 
very good. Connor also asked me to give a ride to church for an LDS 
kid who's at a math camp at the Leland for the next few weeks. I also 
found out that Brickelle qualified for the olympics in swimming! 
Yeah! After church I had dinner with Connor and did some scripture 
study. I sat down to write my Evernote and Carolyn popped by to 
talk. I don't know if I've written about her here before. She's a rising 
junior who lived at FroSoCo last year and would come by to talk 
from time to time. She's going to study abroad in Chile next year, so 
we started to chat in Spanish so she could practice. (I liked the 
practice too). The conversation migrated from lighter “worst Spanish 
gaffes ever” to heavier, as she started to talk about how she was 
looking forward to getting away from Stanford for a while since this 
year had been rough, particularly with her friends. She described 
one night in which she was concerned about how heavily one of her 
friends was drinking and wanted to take her back, but was also 
worried about another friend she was with who'd had a rough time 
with her boyfriend cheating on her. This other friend (also drunk), 
told her, “It's okay, you can go. I haven't cut myself for weeks now.” 
That was the first Carolyn had heard that this friend was cutting. She 
felt burdened by having to be the “strong person” in so many 
situations like that and not knowing what to do. I really didn't know 
what to say, but I did feel like it was not my role to give advice, so I 
just listened, said how hard it must be, and that I'd at times felt 
similarly of not knowing what the right choice was. I'm not entirely 
sure why she opened up to me like that, since I don't know her 
particularly well. She said perhaps it's because I'm older than her, 
and I have a “mature spirit” (technically she said I have an “old 
spirit”, but I'm taking the more generous translation of the Spanish 
here). I hope that she left feeling a little less burdened, as she said 
she hadn't been able to talk about it during the school year very 
much. I'm not sure what attracts people who don't hang out with me 
a lot to tell me their problems, since Sheetal did the same thing this 
week after our conversation about my trip to England. Maybe it's 
some residual missionary aura… We'll so far I'be just been doing my 
best to listen, support, and provide unconditional positive regard. It 
has helped me elevate my Christlike love for others, which I need to 
do more, since I feel like my baseline level is closer to 
respect/tolerance. 
In scripture study, I learned that my Patriarchal Blessing is like my 
personal land of promise, and I will be guided there as I am 
obedient to the commandments of God. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, JULY 11, 2016 AT 11:52 PM 

Good day today. Got really engaged in making a function to 
automate the creation of an average transactions data frame for 
reactivated users. That was fun. Also had a one on one with Kyle. 
Did some business after getting back and invaded Norway in HoI, 
which took forever to take (stiff British Naval resistance because I 
couldn't figure out how to escort convoys, and lots of allied 
expeditionary forces in the country.) 
In scripture study, I learned that, like Laman and Lemuel, I am often 
reluctant to leave my place of comfort to go to a better land the 
Lord has prepared for me. I need to act in faith to take he 
uncomfortable steps to get there. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016 AT 11:57 PM 

Good Old day, worked on custom metric, attended data meetings, 
finished config. Finished the first video on Swift and played around 
in Xcode for a little. Also played XCOM. Did pretty good at keep big 
my thoughts clean. 
In scripture study, learned that desiring, searching, and setting aside 
time to receive revelation are necessary to get it. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, JULY 16, 2016 AT 1:37 AM 

Saw Vienna Teng in concert today,
which was super cool. See myEvernote for more details. 

In addition to playing computer games, I watched the next episode 
of my Swift class, while taking a walk around lake Lag, which was a 
nice change of pace. 
In scripture study, learned that we can't be fence sitters. All our 
moral choices lead us to either be more good or more evil. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° CLEAR 

SATURDAY, JULY 16, 2016 AT 9:26 AM 

Good day today. Presented follow-up GFI reactivation data at the 
meeting, which was well-received. Also read some more about 
Xcode. Watched some cinematic S for Starcraft: Heart of the Swarm, 
which was a dad waste of time. Will avoid that in the future. 
In scripture study, I thought that avoiding broad roads means 
recognizing that my actions have consequences and eschewing and 
“anything goes” attitude. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JULY 17, 2016 AT 9:45 AM 

I think that this week was better than last week in several ways, 
although I still have room for improvement. Overall, I did a better 
job at keeping my thoughts clean, although still not 100%. A few 
things that I think will help me with that include: diversifying my 
activities, so I'm not just sitting at home playing computer games 
every evening. I should have a goal to have some activity each 
Saturday where I go out, and I should read more, instead of, say, 
reading the comics, giving more service (during the week, not just 
Sundays), such as with indexing or the refugee project, introducing 
good music into my life, whether it's listening to the Messiah in the 
car, or even just a musical to keep my mind occupied. I was able to 
talk with Brickelle for a good while as well, and I think this week I'll 
ask her to see a movie with me. Yay! I think I did improve my time 
use a little his week, as I started the course on Swift, which has been 
going well. My goal is to watch two videos every week and follow 
along with the assignments, which should get me to the end of the 
course by mid September. This week, I also have a goal to write in 
my journal every night, which I've been neglecting. I should also find 
a way to practice singing, even if it's just a little bit. Prayers and 
scripture study have generally gone well, as has exercise. I think my 
ankle is finally better. Speaking of exercise, I want to talk to Sawa 
about getting into rock climbing. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, JULY 17, 2016 AT 10:06 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Had a family call at 11:00 this morning, which I 
did not miss, as I set an alarm for 9:00 am. (In fact, I woke up around 

8:30. I still have no idea why I slept so late last Sunday.) I drove 
Cameron, my roommate, to church, as he doesn't have a bike, and 
got to know him better. He's thinking of leaving, since he's 
withdrawn from two of his three classes. I don't know what to say to 
him, as it may not be productive for him to stay if he only has one 
class, but on the other hand, sticking it it here may be better than 
whatever he's do at home. It seems like mostly he misses his family. 
Maybe I could talk to him about being homesick on my mission. 
Anyway, today was worldwide indexing challenge, so I tried to 
decipher from birth, marriage, and death records from 1850's Spain. 
I also wrote my Evernote and reviewed one of the guides for the 
refugee project. Considering learning to be an appropriate Sabbath 
day activity, I also extended the calculator in Swift to have more 
operations, as well as the ability to type floating point numbers with 
“.” I also signed up for a Stanford Summer trip to Monterrey Bay 
Aquarium next Saturday. Hopefully I wasn't too late and there are 
still spots. 
In scripture study, I learned that finding the gospel “hard to hear” is 
a warning sign that I'm probably doing something wrong that makes 
me resistant to calls to change. Classic case of cognitive dissonance. 
554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, JULY 18, 2016 AT 11:37 PM 

Good day today. Met with Dante to talk about goals, and he gave 
me high praise for my initial work, which was nice. I'll be working on 
visualization tools and a synthesizer for the mets-analysis. After work, 
Skyped with padre and family for his birthday. Got a new game 
called Overwatch (because I finally got paid), which is fun, but not as 
good as XCOM. 
In scripture study, I learned not to equate happiness with enjoying 
material possessions or being in any one place or situation. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016 AT 11:42 PM 

Old day today. Made revisions toheat map function. 

In institute, learned about the necessity of afflictions and how they 
can be made holy for me. Played XCOM to the limit of my 
frustration. 
In scripture study, I learned that I need to seek internal, rather than 
external, sign motivation. In order to fully live the gospel. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, JULY 20, 2016 AT 11:39 PM 

Good day today. Work was rather frustrating because the heat map 
function that I thought was nearly done turned out to be more 
complicated than I anticipated, with the need to aggregate across 
unpredictable faceting levels. I think I've mostly gotten it done now, 
but I still need to check the output. After work, I went with Brickelle 
to see Ghostbusters, which was fun. It was definitely a more directly 
humorous movie than the original, although sometimes I felt like it 
tried too hard to be funny. Generally enjoyable overall though. The 
drive to the theater was 20 minutes, so I had a good chance to talk 
with Brickelle in the car about various things, including our shared 
love of dystopian fiction. Worked on a bit of Swift to top off the 
night. 
In scripture study, learned that gratitude for God's help when we 
accomplish something good can help us avoid coasting. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016 AT 7:45 PM 

Good day today. At work, I finally finished the evil heatmap tool I've 
been trying to revamp for the past three days, and got it to work on 
all the many permutations of faceting it could face. I talked to Chris, 
the guy who built the original heatmap tool to ask him how it dealt 
with multileveled faceting, since I couldn't figure it out from the 
code. Turns out that it didn't! So that's why I couldn't see the 
solution in the original code, because there wasn't one! Anyway, 
Kent came in at the end of work and caught up with Dante and old 
friends, then we went out for dinner at Three Pigs, a BBQ place in 
San Carlos that is basically comfort food to the max (Mac and cheese 
with brisket? Yes please!) . It was quite yummy, and during dinner I 
approved Kentre's latest travel machination, Back to Weimar: 
German Travel Extravaganza 2016. After dinner, I got back and went 
on a walk with Cameron, my roommate. We talked about a lot of 
different things, from coding to his family (apparently his dad just 
lost $5.5 million from a tanked investment in a pharmaceutical 
company. On the one hand, I'm sympathetic about the loss. On the 
other, if you have $5.5 million to invest, you're probably alright.) 
In scripture study, I pondered what it means for something to be 
holy (well, yesterday too). What makes it holy, set apart from other 
things? I guess one meaning of holy would be that it and special 
significance to God. Therefore, as we learn to become like Him, the 
things that are holy to Him will be holy to us, because they will start 
to be special and important to us, like the temple, the sanctity of life, 
or our families. 

616 SERRA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY SUNNY 

FRIDAY, JULY 22, 2016 AT 10:13 AM 

Good day today. Today I finished up checking and touching up the 
heatmap tool at work and got it all ready to be loaded into Shiny, 
the visualization dashboard tool. I also did some configurations. 
Since next week is the company retreat, during which Dante literally 
asked us not to do any work if we don't have to, I wrapped up all my 
work for a little bit. Besides that, I bounced around games without 
being able to find a satisfactory one. I also read some Doonesbury 
comics, which I didn't get when I was younger (they were one of the 
few comics I skipped, that and Mark Trail), but now with more 
political and historical context, I find them raucously funny, like a 
series about trying to arrange for the secession of Texas to prevent 
the Perrys and the Bushes from spreading to other states. 
In scripture study, I learned that being like Christ is the only way to 
come to know Him and understand His priorities. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SATURDAY, JULY 23, 2016 AT 7:59 PM 


Good day today. The big event of the day was going to Monterey 
Bay Aquarium for a Stanford Summer trip. There were four other 
FroSoCo people, including my friend Sheetal, so we hung out while 
touring the aquarium. It was really cool to see all the animals. I'm 
fascinated by how jellyfish are so simple, basically no internal organs, 
and yet they alive, and can navigate, eat, and so forth. I'm also so 
interested by octopuses (and creatures of the deep sea in general), 
so it was cool to see them as they swirled around their tanks. On the 
ride their and back, I napped and watched a video on Swift, which I 
need to keep up on. I did a bit of programming in the evening, 
updating the calculator with more functionality. 
I also got a new game, in response to yesterday's malaise, called 
“Rimworld.” It's basically sci-fi Dwarf Fortress plus graphics. When I 
saw that, and read Rock Paper Shotgun's review about ending up 
with a mechanically-armed former pop star running their colony, I 
said “I want! I want! I want!” It has not disappointed. It has lots of 
the motifs of Dwarf Fortress, but fewer people to manage, and a 
little less complexity. Currently I have a wooden walled-in base with 
five people, which I've recently given electricity. I'm working on a 
base expansion with a larger stone wall, and hoping to upgrade the 
bedrooms of my colonists from prison cells to something a little 
more luxurious. I just fended off a pirate attack, so I hope that's 
bought me some time to build. 
In scripture study, I learned that we often bring our own captivity 
upon ourselves through our poor choices. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, JULY 23, 2016 AT 10:13 PM 

Good Sabbath today. In the morning, Kent called me for my 
approval to the BTW Germany trip plan, and I noticed that he'd 
repeated a day, so it looked like it was a day shorter than it actually 
was. I asked for a revised schedule. Church was good. A new 
missionary (out about two months) bore his testimony. He sounded 
very new, kind of colloquial and disjointed. He'll learn. Conrad 
Verkler gave an interesting talk about how perfection isn't about 
fixing mistakes but fundamentally changing ourselves. After church, I 
set up Dashlane on my devices, to hopefully make them more secure 
and convenient. Kent came over for dinner (as he was on campus for 
a meeting with Rumble, the startup he's working with), and we 
discussed BTW version 2.0, which was revised into version 3.0 and 
submitted to the Madre. I wrote my Evernote, updated my journal, 
and revised my code for my calculator in Swift. Watched the MoTab 
Pioneer Day concert. I also read my last entry in my mission journal, 
the one I wrote after I'd gotten back home (not the one I wrote on 
the plane). It really took me back. For a second, I was getting off that 
plane, hugging my family, and getting released all over again. I 
could hear the click as my nametag slid off for the last time. My 
mission was so much. It seems more like a lifetime than two years. 
There's so much good and bad, joy and pain, wrapped up in it that I 
still can't comprehend it. I still have dreams about going back. 
Usually I'm somehow pressed back into service even though I 
already completed my mission. They don't always feel pleasant. I 
had one just this week. They happen maybe every few weeks to 
every month or two. Kent gets them too. I've never had recurring 
dreams before, but this one is surprisingly consistent, at least in 
theme. I wonder why it happens… 
In scripture study, I learned that from pioneers, we can learn to look 
back and be grateful for those who have gone before, and look 
forward to build a better life for those to come. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° CLEAR 

SUNDAY, JULY 24, 2016 AT 10:16 AM 

I feel like I had a very good week overall this week. I had s good mix 
of activities, from seeing “Ghostbusters” with Brickelle to having 
dinner with Kent to going to the Monterey Bay Aquarium. This 
helped balance out my week so I didn't just spend it playing 
computer games. I also had a challenging task at work, which was at 
times frustrating but I was eventually able to accomplish. I'm glad 
that I started listening to an audiobook on my commute, as it is 
really engaging (and perhaps prompting me to eat healthier!). I'm 
not entirely sure to the reason why, perhaps because I was busier 
with more activities, or perhaps because I framed it as an 
“experiment”, or maybe because Heavenly Father answered my 
prayers, but I felt very good about having clean thoughts this week, 
and not nearly as tempted as some of the previous weeks. So, I will 
work to ensure that that success continues. Did a good job at 
exercise and eating healthily this week, although I really do need to 
figure out a more elaborate strategy than granola for breakfast on 
the run. 
On the side of things to improve on, I felt that my prayer and 
scripture study were rather mediocre this week. I did them, but 
didn't feel too engaged. One solution is to go to bed a little earlier 
to get more sleep, shoot for 11:00 to 11:30. (On Saturday, I want to 
go to bed at midnight. I'll set a phone reminder to do that.) Another 
thing I forgot to do was a midweek check-in on my goals, which I've 
set a reminder for Wednesday. I could also do better at keeping my 
journal up to date (which goes with the bedtime thing). 
I was able to learn some more Swift this week, although I should do 
more of it, averaging two videos of week instead of one, one during 
the week and one on Saturday, perhaps. 
This upcoming week is the company retreat, and I'm going on the 
Juntos hike on Saturday, so they should keep me busy. I should also 
consider going to a movie with Cameron or something, he seems 
like he needs stuff to do. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° HAZY 

MONDAY, JULY 25, 2016 AT 5:40 PM 


Good day today. Everyone was at the office for retreat week, so I 
finally got to meet people who I'd only spoken with online like 
Ricardo, Felipe, and Miri. Ben kicked off the week with a session 
about Juntos' trajectory, including their impressive growth in the 
past year, looking toward messaging over 1.5 million users under 
current contracts. (Apparently the company still isn't profitable, 
which is par for the course for venture-funded firms at this stage.) 
Numbers aside, the company does have a great culture of caring, 
and I'm so blessed to be able to work there. Besides that, we had an 
IT session with Dante to check up on security, and had a session on 
the new design model with Miri. Basically, with a bigger user base, 
we can test lots of stuff simultaneously, so content suggests will be 
open and content will be modular so you can easily piece together 
new experiences from pieces of older ones. Some people in the 
office also played a round of “King of Tokyo”, a board game in 
which your monster competes against other monsters to dominate 
the city. Sadly, cyber bunny didn't make it… 
In scripture study, I learned that we can be just as blessed by Christ's 
ministry as those who saw Him personally on earth. We can be just 
as touched by Him. We shouldn't view their experiences as 
fundamentally different from our own. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 78° CLEAR 

TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016 AT 11:05 AM 

Good day today. Went off to the Juntos retreat today. In the 
morning, we had a user research session led by Ben, who discussed 
different principles used in getting people to open up during 
background interviews conducted by designers before a deployment 
launch. There were then interview demos with various people on the 
team. I watched Harris interview Shawn, who talked about spending 
6 years in Rwanda. After lunch, we all geared up to go to 
Mayacamas, which was about a three and a half hour drive away (and 
scorching hot in the mid 90's). I went in a car with Emilia (design), 
Veronica (business development), and Abisheik (sales), and got to 
know them better, including conversations about the extreme of 
convenience (“Wall-E”) and robots taking over the world. After 
arriving at Mayacamas, we settled into our cabins. (I roomed with 
Shawn and discovered that he enjoys reading Wendell Berry.) We 
had a lovely dinner provided by the ranch staff (All the food is 
amazing!) and watched"Zootopia" for our movie night, which I really 
enjoyed seeing again. 
In scripture study, I learned that the words I write in my journal will 
“cry from the dust” to future generations, so I should pay attention 
to my writing and do things that I'll be proud to write about. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 75° CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, JULY 27, 2016 AT 10:41 PM 

Very good day today. Started the day off with a little hike with 
Manny, another intern, on a trail that descended into a valley behind 
where the cabins are. We spent about 45 minutes getting to know 
each other better and talking about everything from coding to the 
2008 financial crisis. After breakfast, we had a team activity in which 
we had to build boats to get 3 team members across the pool 
(without getting wet) out of beach balls, wooden dowels, rope, and 
cardboard. Our team won, as we got all three of our members 
across, and were the only ones to get anyone across. We did age the 
rather dubious tactic of having two people in the pool to stabilize 
the boat, but hey, it wasn't against the rules. After that, we chilled 
out in the pool playing volleyball with one of the beach balls. After 
lunch, a group of us trekked around to find a rather small and algae-
filled like where we went canoeing and chatted on the shore for a 
few hours. After retuning, I tried to read a little of my book, but 
ended up taking a nap instead. After dinner, I played quite a few 
rounds of ping pong with other Juntonians, and acquitted myself 
reasonably well (although some of my opponents had the handicap 
of being slightly drunk). To top off the night, we had a bonfire with 
s'mores, and I chatted with Kyle and Caleb about college activism, 
Jonathan Haidt, and moral disengagement. Actually, to really top it 
all off, I went outside and looked at the stars filling the sky, which I 
absolutely love to do. (We even saw a meteor during the campfire, 
which burned brightly clear across the sky until it disappeared below 
the horizon. Super cool, I've never seen anything like it.) I am always 
awed by the night sky and how it reminds me that I am a very small 
person on a blue marble floating though the vastness of space. 

38.5704° N, 122.652° W 

THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016 AT 10:03 AM 


Good day today. Last day of the Juntos retreat. We had a morning 
session brainstorming (actually “barn-raising,” whatever that means) 
design ideas headed by Miri. Played half a game of “Lost Cities” 
and had lunch before driving back to San Francisco, where there was 
a drinks mixer at Shawn's house (head of operations). Dante then 
drove a few of us back to San Carlos (other people went to the 
Giants game) and then I drove home. Overall the retreat was quite 
fun and exceeded my expectations. 
In scripture study, I had a different reading of 2 Nephi 4:6. I'd always 
thought that fathers referred to Lehi, which didn't make sense. Why 
would the sins of Laman and Lemuel fall in a righteous man's head? 
Today when reading it, I saw that the “fathers” could be Laman and 
Lemuel, and that the sins of their descendants would fall on them 
because they had failed to reach them righteously. That makes a lot 
more sense to me and conveys the responsibility that we all have as 
teachers to teach clearly and powerfully. 

3975 MOUNTAIN HOME RANCH RD, CALISTOGA, CA, UNITED STATES • 70° SUNNY 

FRIDAY, JULY 29, 2016 AT 10:54 PM 

Good day today. Had some in-office Juntos activities, including two 
small group breakout sessions. My first one was with Feliple (sales 
from Mexico) about promoting the financial health and well-being of 
Juntos employees. The second was with France's about connecting 
to people who are out of the main office. We then had lunch with 
one of the board members, who talked to us about the venture 
capital landscape. The last session of the day was about empathy for 
our partners, and included a nice video of our partners around the 
world introducing themselves, which was cool because I'm several 
degrees separated from them. Then there was an office happy hour, 
following which a group of us had dinner at a local collection of food 
trucks (Kent joined us as well.) 
In scripture study, I learned that resistance reminds us of God. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, JULY 30, 2016 AT 10:54 PM 


Good day today. The day was entirely dominated by a Juntos hiking 
excursion that became a mini marathon. Kate picked me up at 9:45, 
then we drove to San Carlos where we picked up Felipe, 
sandwiches, and coffee. (I did not imbibe of the coffee.) We then 
drove to San Francisco and picked up Allen, a friend of Felipe's and 
general Juntos supporter. After that, we headed over to Mt. 
Tamalpais, which is in Marin, on the other side of the Golden Gate 
Bridge. We ran into heavy traffic, so we didn't even get to our 
destination until after 1:00 pm! We then hiked about 3 miles down to 
a little lake, where we had our lunch, and then 3 miles back up. (It 
was literally down and up almost the whole time in those respective 
directions.) On the way down, some other hikers pointed out to us a 
little rattlesnake curled up on a nearby log, which was interesting. 
On the way back up, we almost ran into a much bigger rattlesnake 
curled up in the middle of the path, which reared its head, hissed, 
and rattled at the person in front of me. So we high-tailed it out of 
there and made a big circle around it. Also on the hike, we got to 
talking about people's lives, including Kate's experience hiking the 
Pacific Coast Trail (Canada to Mexico in 4 ½ months!) as well as my 
mission. I was able to talk about missionary work as well as what we 
taught, which was a good gospel-sharing experience. We got back 
sometime after 4, and then started driving back to SF. Since Kate 
was staying in the city, I was hoping to make it back to the 5:15 
Caltrain, but that was not to be. In fact, by the time Kate got to her 
destination, and called an Uber for me, it wasn't clear if aims make it 
to the 6:20 Caltrain! If I missed it, I'd have to wait another hour! 
Thankfully the Uber driver was very efficient and got me there with 
three minutes to spare. After getting back to Palo Alto, I walked 
back to my dorm (about 2 miles), and got there just before 8:00 pm. 
A truly epic all-day excursion! 
In scripture study, I thought about the sources of light in my life, and 
considers how I need God's guidance in using each one well, rather 
than walking by the light of my own fire. 

FAIRFAX, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JULY 31, 2016 AT 10:03 AM 

Overall this week was quite good. I had lots of activities with my coworkers, 
including the retreat, the food carts, and the hike, and I was 
able to get to know them better. I didn't play computer games that 
much because I was always going to these activities (although in the 
little bit of free time I did have, I played a lot. It would be good to 
do more Swift practice and service stuff with that. Check the refugee 
page status.) I also got some good reading in, which I should keep 
up. I felt like my thoughts were clean. I didn't do as many runs as I 
normally do this week, but I got exercise with hiking and other 
activities. I was able as well to keep up my prayer and scripture 
study, which can be tricky when you're in a new place and routine is 
broken. One way I'd like to improve my prayers is to reflect more on 
my commitments from earlier prayers or my commitments for the 
week. I forgot to do my mid-week check-in to review how I'm doing 
on my goals here, so I'll do that this coming week and keep it in my 
prayers. I did a better job of going to bed on Saturday night, 
stopping playing at midnight and going to bed by 12:30 am. I can 
re-set that bedtime reminder for this coming week. I'm a little behind 
on both Swift and journaling, so I should set aside time to do both of 
those. I don't think I have anything this coming Saturday, so I can 
definitely double down on videos then, but I'll also need to watch at 
least one during the weekday. I'm glad I got the chance to share the 
gospel a bit while talking about my mission on the hike yesterday. I 
hope I had the Spirit with me and represented my beliefs and the 
Church properly. It's for moments like those that I need the Spirit 
with me from scripture study, prayer, and keeping the 
commandments. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JULY 31, 2016 AT 10:44 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Was able to sleep in (since Kent called last 
night and said that I didn't really need to come see him at the 
marathon). Did my normal reflection and study. Church was good. 
First talk was on service, which I need to do more of. Last hour was 
combined on missionary work. I'm glad that I was able to have a 
gospel-centered conversation with my co-workers yesterday. After 
family call, I had dinner and freakified about classes. I looked at the 
CS-HCI Major and psych minor requirements and tried to pencil in 
classes for that. The Math/Science requirements for CS are a tad 
intimidating, as is considering taking CS 103 next quarter. Well, I did 
Math 51, so I'm sure I can work my way through it. It just makes me a 
little nervous. Well, for now I can just practice Swift so I'm ready for 
147. 
In scripture study, I pondered when I might fear people more than 
God. Hey, maybe excessive worrying about classes falls into that 
category, or at least doing it so much that I neglect the weighty 
spiritual matters. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY SUNNY 

August 2016 

MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2016 AT 11:51 PM 

Good day. Integrated heatmap Itolentils and did a config. Workedmore in Swift Calculator. 

In scripture study, learned that “arise, sit down O Jerusalem” meant 
that I should arise from laziness or sin and take full part at the table 
of the Lord in the covenants, rights, and responsibilities He has for 
me. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016 AT 7:44 AM 

Good day today. Brainstormed for a new meta analysis synthesis tool 
at work. Went to institute where Brother Johnson gave an excellent 
lesson on the necessity and ubiquity of sadness and how we have a 
responsibility to reach out and engage the pain of others. In 
scripture study, I learned that the courage to change our actions or 
our perceptions when bad things happen (either from our own 
mistakes or not) comes from a trust in God that things will all work 
out. We, like Nephi, must “know in whom [we] have trusted. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 3, 2016 AT 7:41 AM 

Good day today. Worked from home, and tried to design the meta 
analysis synthesis tool, but was having trouble figuring out my 
approach until Dante helpfully redirected me. I then was able to lay 
the foundation for a good start in code. Drove over to San Jose and 
had dinner with Kent (salmon, couscous, kale, and chocolate lava 
cake) which was delicious. Unfortunately my throat is feeling a bit 
scratchy, hopefully I'm not coming down with something. 
In scripture study, I learned that God can help us recognize our 
goodness as well as our sins, to prevent us from comparing 
ourselves unjustly to others. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016 AT 10:08 PM 

Alright day today. Woke up in the middle of the night with a 
somewhat sore throat, developed a fever after I got to work. I was 
able to make good progress on the synthesis tool, even though I 
had a headache. Also did some configs. Went home, crashed in my 
bed and took two extra, strength Tylenol. I feel almost normal now. 
Hopefully tomorrow I'll feel better. 
In scripture study, learned that we must leave our current land to get 
to a better one. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 5, 2016 AT 10:26 AM 

Good day today. Felt a lot better than yesterday , but still took some 
Tylenol after going in to work to ward off any fevers or headaches. 
Made good progress on the synthesis tool, and got a good idea 
from Kyle to use a Cobb-Douglas style function as a way of 
heuristically combining p values and mean differences. Also did 
some configurations. Watched part of the opening ceremonies of 
the olympics with people at Juntos. Spent the evening relaxing. 
In scripture study, I learned that I should beware of spending too 
much time on idols that I'll later throw to the miles and bats, like 
video games. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, AUGUST 6, 2016 AT 10:30 AM 

Good day today. For reasons I don't understand, I woke up at 7:00 
and didn't go back to sleep, so I spent some time reading “The 
Lucifer Effect” (which is so long! I'm still only 70% of the way 
through!). I took it easy to recuperate from my illness, so I played 
some Rimworld (the dwarf fortress in space game) where I opened 
up the sealed evil in a can (these ancient cryptosleep caskets that 
were walked off and came with a warning that “ancient evil” resided 
there). I also worked a little more on Swift, although I'm still not quite 
sure how to implement variables on my calculator. Skyped Kent and 
Mom and Dad a little later, and went on a walk while watching a 
Swift video. On my walk around Lake Lag, I noticed what looked like 
a herd of squirrels running in one direction (at least 4 or 5). I decided 
to investigate further. At first I thought it was just a dog barking, but 
when I rounded a bend, I saw a large bird of prey sitting on the 
ground. I got a little closer and the bird flew away, with a squirrel in 
its talons! So that was cool; I don't see nature like that too often. 
In scripture study, I learned that I should beware of becoming 
enmeshed in things that I “rise up early in the morning to pursue” 
while ignoring eternal goals. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 7, 2016 AT 11:16 AM 

That was a fair week this week, not as involved and exciting as the 
last one, which was probably good, because I got sick. This coming 
week I'd like to spice up my activities a little more. I think I'll do list 
form this week. 

The Good 


Had dinner with Kent and got to cook with him, which was fun 
and good bonding. 
Got a rough idea of classes for next quarter 
Got more sleep because I was sick 
Made good progress on the Synthesis tool at work and got lots 
of feedback and contributions from others. 
Did my midweek check in. 
Learned some Swift 
The Bad 


Didn't practice enough Swift 
At the end of the week, was tempted by sexual thoughts, 
probably because I didn't keep myself busy enough. 
Wasted time watching movie trailers on IMDB and played 
computer games a bit too much. 
Prayer and scripture study were curtailed a bit by rushing to work 
in the morning or not being focused 
Could do more service 
The Goals 


At least 30 minutes of Swift daily. If I don't do my Swift, then I 
can play the next day. 
At least one day a week (excluding Sundays) where I don't play 
computer games 
Schedule an activity with friends. Probably for Saturday. A movie 
or something? 
Check in on refugee project. Do indexing or some form of 
service. 


Look more into class scheduling 
think about singing. Will I do chorale next year? If so, how will I 
practice now? 
Keep my journal up. 
schedule a temple trip soon 
554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 7, 2016 AT 10:20 PM 

Good fast Sunday today. In the morning, I updated my journal, 
because I have been delinquent in keep my entries. I also went to 
choir practice for a YSA choir that will sing at Stake Conference with 
Elder Gérald Caussé visiting. I sounded like a frog because I'm still 
recovering from my cold (I'm almost all better now.) but it was good 
to at least start learning the music. We had a fascinating Sunday 
School discussion about death. Why is it necessary? What do we 
gain from it? How does the Atonement help us deal with it? 
Connor's thesis is that death is necessary as a natural consequence 
of the bodily transgression committed by Adam and Eve. As with 
other misdeeds, the Atonement doesn't remove the consequences 
of our actions (death), but it makes things right (the resurrection). In 
fact, reflecting on the end of life was a bit of a theme for today. As 
Brother Johnson's testimony was about things that matter most, and 
he said that when your hairs turn gray and you reflect on your life, 
you won't care about your job status, wealth, or the fun you had, but 
your family. Wise words to keep in mind now as I build the 
foundation for my life, which I plan to include a family in. After 
church, there was a longer longer, and I chatted with Annie, a local 
resident who just returned from her Spanish-speaking mission in 
Arizona two weeks ago. Oh thinking about my mission still gives me 
the feels. It's something I can't quite wrap my head around. It was 
alternately terrible and wonderful and full of those seeming 
contradictions of experience that nonetheless forged me into 
someone better. I know there are impacts from my mission that I'll 
feel for the rest of my life, even if I don't notice them. Sigh why do I 
even try to describe it? Words barely scratch the surface. One day 
soon, I'd like to read my entire mission journal, from start to finish. 
All 370 something pages of it. It will be interesting to see how I 
changed. I've never thrown myself into something that way before or 
since. 
Anyway, good luck dealing with all of that, Annie. 
After the longer longer, I drove home with Cameron and chatted 
with him. He's been having a hard time staying focused on his class. 
I don't blame him when he has only one class he's taking. I tried to 
encourage him to give the final his best shot, as there's basically no 
downside risk from doing so. I'll need to check in on him later this 
week. 
I felt prompted to read my patriarchal blessing, which was a spiritual 
high point for me today. I just felt so motivated to follow the Lord's 
plan for me, to be a real disciple of Christ. I haven't felt the Spirit 
that strongly in a while. After that, I did some indexing of lovely 
typed Chilean death records (Chile was appropriate, since I was just 
checking in on the Salinas family on Facebook.) I then did a little bit 
of Swift, after updating VMWare only to realize that the stuff I was 
working on was on my work Mac, so I really didn't need to do it in 
the first place. 
In scripture study, I reflected on how I want to say at the end of my 
life that “I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I 
have kept the faith.” I could truthfully say that at the end of my 
mission. I must reflect more often on that goal if I am able to do the 
same at the end of my mortal mission. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, AUGUST 8, 2016 AT 11:07 PM 

Good day today. Worked on synthesis tool and debugged a bit of 
the experiment dashboard at work. Probably ready to take on a new 
project soon. Watched a Swift video and learned about gestures. 
Did my laundry and listened to a cool Radiolab episode on these 
fungi that serve as a sort of root web connection and resource 
transfer system between trees, almost like a brain…. 
In scripture study, I learned that I will inherit the kingdom that I invest 
in. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° CLEAR 

TUESDAY, AUGUST 9, 2016 AT 11:37 PM 

Good day today. Finished up synthesis function after consulting with 
Chris over how to score it. He didn't really understand the need for 
the tool until Dante came to my rescue and explained all. After work, 
I had dinner with Brickelle and Connor, which was fun. Also went to 
institute where we talked about priorities and did the “how does 
your time match up with your declared priorities?” activity. I actually 
found reasonable correspondence, except for the “build 
relationships” theme, which needed additional time. Ask worked on 
Swift, might make a little tic tac toe game for practice. 
In scripture study, learned to ask, similar to tonight “where does this 
activity lead to?” Or does it lead to nowhere? 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 10, 2016 AT 11:44 PM 

Good day today. Productive at work. Finalized synthesis function and 
got good feedback from Dante on the level scoring. Finished up 
some configurations and linked some intro tracks to later 
experiences. After work, worked on Tic Tac Toe in Swift. 
In scripture study, I thought about how signs confirm or belief after 
we act. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, AUGUST 11, 2016 AT 11:45 PM 

Good day today. Did some configs and tool polishing at work, and 
helped Kyle debug the launch of the experiment dashboard. For 
some reason, the version on my computer worked and his didn't, so 
we deployed mine online. I have no idea why there was the 
discrepancy. I got ingredients for baleadas and made the dough 
tonight, so I can bring them to the international potluck lunch at 
Juntos tomorrow. Unfortunately the kitchenette is Sketchville, USA, 
so I had to prepare them without any measuring implements (I had 
an 8 FlOz water bottle I used to base everything off.) or bowls (I used 
an 8x8 pan.) I bought most of my ingredients at Trader Joe's, but in 
the morning, I checked the kitchenette and there was a bottle of 
Canola oil. Since I only needed 3 tablespoons, I figured that I'd use 
that. Of course, it was gone when I got back in the evening, so I 
ended up using olive oil instead. We'll see how these turn out… 
Anyway, I also was on a call with the other Sophomore Fellows for 
next year's activity planning. It was woefully inefficient and took an 
hour to do five minutes of planning because people kept getting 

distracted. On the plus side, I cleared out my email inbox .. 
. Also 

did some Swift and got a new audiobook, “Conspiracy of Fools” 
about Enron, since I finished “Salt, Sugar, and Fat” today. It's by Kurt 
Eichenvald, who wrote two other books that I really enjoyed. Excited 
to start listening. 
In scripture study, I learned to look to the law and testimony as a 
measure of my actions. IE, does this align with my testimony? 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 12, 2016 AT 10:09 PM 


Good day today. Possibly the highlight was the office international 
potluck. After all the finagling yesterday, the baleadas turned out 
quite well. The dough was a little Springfield than usual, probably 
from sitting so long before being cookers, but they rolled and 
cooked fine. Manny, the other intern, made some scrambled eggs to 
go with them, and I also brought avocado, sour cream, feta, and 
refried beans. People seemed to like them, as they ate them all and 

so got several compliments .. 
. Others brought rice with palm 
hearts, red red (a Ghanaian bean dish), homemade vegetarian sushi, 
and four layer jello. Besides that, I read the cohort analyzer code to 
understand it better before embarking on the response rate analyzer 
dashboard. I ask dealt with Gitpocalypse with Kyle and Caleb. See 
the Evernote for details. Basically we spent two hours resolving 
conflicts trying to merge branches. Anyway, after work I had dinner 
with Kent at Ricker, which was fun. I shared my woes of Gitpocalypse 
and he shared that he though he'd deleted his company's e tire gem 
library (turns out it was just a bug not on his end). I also downloaded 
“No Man's Sky”, a new space exploration game that came out 
today. I was kind of disappointed. Graphics were a bit laggy, but I 
couldn't tell if the big problem was lag or just that you walk 
soooooooo slowly. It's actually faster to meter attack and then jet 
pack. I don't know if I'll keep it or return it… 
In scripture study, I learned that I really have no reason to boast in 
my accomplishments, considering that I rely so much on God to do 
anything. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, AUGUST 13, 2016 AT 10:31 PM 

Good day today. It was dominated by working on Swift, since I found 
my games boring. I got a working version of TicTacToe, with the 
ability to do singlet or multiplayer and a menu. Now I just need to 
have a way to return to the main menu when the game ends… I 
played a bit of HoI4 and Overwatch, but neither seemed to hit the 
spot… I read some Time and my book. I did get to bet right after 
midnight, which was good. In retrospect, it would have been good 
to have a scheduled activity today. 
In scripture study, I learned that my behaviors, like an umbrella, can 
block me from God's shower of blessings. For example, I need to 
spend more time listening in my prayers. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 14, 2016 AT 10:16 AM 

This week was generally good, although there was a bit of 
deterioration towards the end, I think because I didn't have a good 
scheduled weekend activity. Next weekend is the temple trip, which 
should address that. I did a pretty good job at keeping my thoughts 
clean, except Friday and Saturday were harder, probably because I 
felt a little bored. I'll need to work hard to have more scheduled 
activities with friends. I actually did a great job working on Swift with 
my tic tac toe game, although now I should go back to the lecture-
linked assignments. I'll want to continue with my 30 minutes a day of 
that, as well as one non-Sunday a week without video games. 
Actually, I didn't feel that motivated to play this week, I feel like I 
wasted my time more reading XKCD, when I could have been doing 
things with friends or reading a book. I am glad that I got to have 
dinner with Connor and Brickelle, as well as with Kent. Kent and I 
should do a hike sometime soon. I'm glad that I could get involved 
in ward choir. I'll practice for that during the week. Can also do a bit 
of indexing during the week, maybe on my no video game day. I feel 
like work is going well. I'm excited for this new project. I feel like I 
now have a good amount to do. So, main goal this week: talk with 
friends like Connor and Angela and do stuff. In general, scripture 
study and prayer went well. Should pray more when I feel tempting 
thoughts. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 14, 2016 AT 9:53 PM 

Good Sabbath today. I was woken up a little earlier than normal by 
Cameron, my roommate, who was packing, and wanted to know if I 
wanted any of his stuff. I left for church early to go to not one, but 
two choir practices. The first was for ward choir, which sang “Come 
Thou Fount of Every Blessing” in Sacrament meeting today as part 
of a 50-50 musical and talk split. Ryan Madsen had invited me to 
help out last night, so that was my first and only rehearsal. All things 
considered, the performance went quite well, we were definitely 
getting some heavenly help there. I also had stake choir rehearsal, 
which went much better than last week now that I don't have a cold. 
Actually, the talks and musical numbers in church were excellent. The 
first one was an accountant who talked about how long people and 
to wait to be healed from Jesus during His ministry in Jerusalem 
(with some assumptions, an average of twelve years). The second 
was someone who aspires to be an ambassador, who discussed the 
fall of great empires and implied (while not saying) “If we don't live 
in a way that counteracts the diseases that afflicted previous 
empires, then our own country will sink into decline.” But the bigger 
message was that in the gospel, we have a kingdom that will not fail. 
Anyway, after church I Skyped my family and had dinner at Arrillaga 
(sadly, Ricker's closed for the rest of the summer). After that, I wrote 
my Evernote while listening to EFY music. “What Faith Can Do” 
came on and I about lost it right there. The feels from my mission 
came on so strong. I dropped to my knees right then and prayed in 
gratitude that I could serve, for my companions, leaders, and 
mission president, and for the untellable blessings that came from 
that experience. (Now, I want to be clear. On another level I'm 
grateful that I don't have to do that again. Sometimes I wonder how 
I ever did it.) After that, I skimmed my mission journal for a bit (which 
I want to read cover to cover sometime soon), and I texted Kent 
about the song making me think about my mission. That launched a 
conversation about how we both have recurring dreams where we're 
called back to the mission field for round 2. I wrapped up the night 
with some indexing. 
In scripture study, I learned that if I only focus on myself, I will realize 
that I have a sad, empty life, similar to the description of fallen 
Lucifer in Isaiah 14. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016 AT 8:55 PM 

Good day today. I had to have breakfast and dinner at Arrillaga, and 
after breakfast when I got back to my dorm room, I realized that I'd 
forgotten to pick up my sack lunch, so I had to bike back again to 
get it! On the plus side, I got lots of exercise. At work, Dante 
approved my API and input design for the response rate analyzer, so 
I'm excited to get to work coding that now, as I continue to get 
design ideas from some of the other data analysts. After getting 
back home, I had dinner and watched some of a Swift lecture. I 
ended up deciding to request a return on No Man's Sky, as it just 
didn't seem engaging enough. Instead, I opted to get Spore: 
Galactic Adventures to relieve the good old days. I have a copy of 
Spore at home, and I think my GA copy is electronic but linked to 
Padre's email, so I just decided I'd buy it again on Steam. 
In scripture study, I learned that hope leads to obedience, because I 
believe that keeping the commandments can lead to a better world 
both here and in the hereafter. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY SUNNY 

TUESDAY, AUGUST 16, 2016 AT 11:21 PM 

Good day today. Made some progress on the transformation 
function for some data, although I'm not sure if I should index by 
experiment start time or first message time. Talked with Cristina 
about the project and got asked to do some reactivation analysis for 
GFI with new data. Luckily I wrote all those metrics and have the 
original reactivation code, so it shouldn't take terribly long. Went to 
institute, where we discussed being rooted in Christ and grace, from 
2 Nephi 25. I also worked on Swift and I think I've almost gotten the 
big with my calculator variables not working solved. 
In scripture study, I learned that 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 17, 2016 AT 5:58 PM 


Good day today. It was work from home day, but I was unable to 
work from home because all my code was on my work desktop and I 
hadn't committed it. So, I ended up driving into work and being on 
the skeleton crew. I finished up an analysis of reactivated users for 
GFI. I also made beautiful parameterized code for the transformation 
function to the response rate analyzer. The user can choose from 
four different time periods with two anchoring options, and all the 
variation is captured in one switch statement with one line changes! 
After work, I drove down to Edgewood park and went hiking with 
Kent. He gave me some Soylent to try, which I found disgusting. I 
liked the Cliff bar better. We did a several mile loop and saw deer 
(twice!), a hare, and turkeys (as well as lizards, but thankfully no 
rattlesnakes). Oh yes, while at work, I got an email from GovCo 
saying “We rekeyed your door today. Pick up your new key between 

8:00 am and 5:00 pm” What?! It was almost 11:00 when they sent 
this, so if I wanted to sleep in my room tonight, I had to designate a 
proxy to pick up my key for me. Thankfully Sheetal was on campus 
and was able to get it, but that was a close one. With no warning 
either! After I got back, I tried to do Swift but had trouble with 
VMware, so I had to download a package that (surprisingly) fixed my 
issue with a freeze on boot up. I finally finished implemented 
variables on my calculator and moved my code over to my work 
laptop (by emailing myself a zip file, which also surprisingly worked) 
so I don't have to use the virtual machine. 
In scripture study, I ponder my blessings from the gospel while 
reading the restoration discussion in Preach My Gospel. I think the 
family links are a big one, in everything from a family journal to Kent 
and me bonding over mission experiences. 

37.4739° N, 122.279° W 

THURSDAY, AUGUST 18, 2016 AT 10:53 PM 

Good day today. Made excellent progress on the response rate 
analyzer at work. I got everything from the set data to the filtering 
functions working, and it can now give output on single time period 
snapshots, although there's still work to go making it do cumulative 
metrics as well. I also forgot my sack lunch. (I took special care to 
pick it up at the dining hall, then promptly left the box under the 
table.) Tomorrow I will remember! Also at work, I listened to the 
whole Lord of the Rings soundtrack while coding. Oh the memories! 
It just captures this journey so well, from the innocence of the Shire 
to the utter despair at Mount Doom, to the final reunion of the 
fellowship. That kind of growing up journey kind of reminds me of 
my mission. After work, I played a bit of Final Fantasy XIV, a very run-
of-the-mill MMO, with eternal starting cinematics. Literally, there was 
an opening cinematic, character creation, a weird crystal cinematic, a 
travel cinematic, a city cinematic, and an intro cinematic, before you 
could walk more than about five feet. Anyway, after that I worked on 
making a graphing calculator in Swift (via extension of the regular 
calculator). I got all the views set up, and the code for the axes to 
draw, but I'm not sure exactly how to pass the function. The 
calculator returns this AnyObject that is composed of all the 
commands put into the calculator since it was last cleared/equals 
was pressed, but it's masked so only the calculator can read it. I 
wonder if you just have to continually tell the calculator to run it with 
a different value for the variable every time… 
In scripture study, I read more about the apostasy and restoration. I 
pondered how revelation doesn't answer all our questions so much 
as give us enough direction to go on. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 19, 2016 AT 11:30 PM 

Good day today. At work, I made progress on the response rate tool, 
adding the capability to give cumulative results as well as snapshot 
for every week of interest. Now, it gives all the output it should, I just 
need to verify its correctness, which, given sheer volume of metrics 
and time combinations, will take a while. After work, I grabbed 
dinner and then biked down to church to meet with the missionaries 
and Marcos Casías, a recent convert that Jason and I will be home 
teaching. I met Jason, Marcos, and the missionaries there, and the 
Elders did splits with another member leaving the less experienced 
one with us, presumably to get some teaching experience in a safe 
environment. Since they're reviewing the new member lessons with 
Marcos, we discussed the restoration, which, not surprisingly, Marcos 
didn't remember a ton about since he's been taught it a while ago. 
He had good questions though. Seems like he's working hard to 
have his life in order, getting baptized, working, and studying 
accounting at night school. After the lesson, the missionary's 
companion hadn't gotten back yet, so I hung around with him for a 
while. All in all, between the missionaries arriving a bit late, a long 
lesson, and waiting afterwards, I didn't get back to my dorm from 
the 7:00 lesson until 9:00! It was a good experience though. After a 
round of XCOM, I did some more swift, and worked on adding 
gesture recognizers to my graphing calculator. 
In scripture study, I pondered the impulses that might lead me to 
“eat, drink, and be merry.” I think one is simply a too narrow focus 
on work, play, sleep, repeat, while neglecting the weighted matters 
of life: relationships, service, self-improvement. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, AUGUST 20, 2016 AT 11:22 PM 

Good day today. Went to the temple in the morning, which was very 
nice. It's closing for cleaning for the next few months, so I'm glad 
that I caught the chance to go.one of the questions that I had been 
pondering was guidance about my academic and activity choices for 
the coming school year. I felt a sense of peace that, if I did my due 
diligence in examining my options, weighing them, and seeking 
revelation, it would all work out. After going to the temple, we ate 
out at Fenton's a brunch place/diner with yummy ice cream. I had a 
tasty crab omelette and rocky road ice cream. After getting back, I 
worked on Swift a bit and played a bit of Endless Legend. As with 
Endless Space, I always fall behind the AI and don't understand why. 
In the evening, I drove over to Kent's place to have dinner (warm 
duck salad, lovely dark bread, and chocolate mousse). We watched a 
bit of the Olympics and programmed. I finished up my graphing 
calculator. 
In the temple, I learned that it wasn't the fruit itself that lent 
knowledge of good and evil so much as the experiences, including 
the sorrow, that Adam and Eve and all of us pass through. I also 
learned the pattern plan, execute, review. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 21, 2016 AT 9:04 PM 

Very good week overall. I'm happy that I was able to help the 
missionaries, do some home teaching and go to the temple. I also 
made good progress on Swift, spent lots of time with Kent, and 
didn't play too much computer games. My thoughts were quite 
clean, just no looking up olympians. As a goal to improve, I'd like to 
spend more time with friends, maybe do something with Angela, as 
she's almost the only student still here. I find that building 
relationships consistently tends to be something I want to improve 
on. 
It is not good that man should be alone. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 21, 2016 AT 10:33 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Busy. In the morning, I went to home teach 
Jared at his apartment with Jason. We talked about a lot of things, 
including dating, precipitated by Jared's comment that he wants to 
be married in 18 months. Jason also talked about his desire for 
marriage but also his anxiety about “choosing the wrong person.” It 
just seemed like a pressure cooker. I feel like that kind of 
attitude/mindset of “I must get married soon or else my life is 
ruined.” can't be healthy. Anyway, after that, I went to stake choir, 
then church. The talks in sacrament meeting were very good, on 
listening, God helping us survive and move forward each day, and 
hope. In second hour, we talked about war, for which some people 
seemed uncomfortably gung ho. We tend to use a lot of war rhetoric 
in talking about the “fight against sin” but who are we fighting 
against? Satan, yes, but the people we interact with on a day-to-day 
basis are God's children and he desires their salvation, not some sort 
of enemy combatants in an evil army. I just worry that war rhetoric 
like that can promote an unhealthy view of our brothers and sisters. 
Anyway, after church I Skyped with my family, wrote my Evernote, 
and responded to an email from Grammie about how I was doing 
and whether I had a social life and was meeting lots of girls I liked. 
Never mind that there is literally one female LDS student at Stanford 
who is not I a relationship right now (as far as I know). After that, I 
did some indexing and learned about scroll views in Swift. 
In scripture study, I read 2 Nephi 31. I thought, “Endure to the end. 
Great. So what are you going to do about it?” Then I read 2 Nephi 
32: 

I suppose that ye ponder somewhat in your hearts concerning that 
which ye should do after ye have entered in by the way 

Yep 

But, behold, why do ye ponder these things in your hearts? 

Wherefore, now after I have spoken these words, if ye cannot 
understand them it will be because ye ask not, neither do ye knock. 

Okay. So I should ask… 

And now, my beloved brethren, I perceive that ye ponder still in your 
hearts; and it grieveth me that I must speak concerning this thing. 
For if ye would hearken unto the Spirit which teacheth a man to pray, 
ye would know that ye must pray; 

Alright, I get it, I need to pray. 
So, I did some praying and reflecting on my life, which I think was 
what I really needed, since I'd been having trouble concentrating in 
scripture study. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016 AT 11:22 PM 

Good day today. In work, I tried to implement a way for the states 
that users had passed through to display as an output column, but to 
no avail. Every method I found ran into technical challenges or was 
slow as molasses as runtime. I was able to check more output and 
get the experiment dashboard deployed with Caleb, though. After 
work, I played some Endless Legend, and after getting frustrated 
with how I inexplicably fell behind every other faction (this happened 
in Endless Space too), I refilled with a new game on easy which, 
predictably, is going much better. I also watched some more Swift 
videos. Up next is multithreading, which should be interesting since I 
haven't done it before. 
In scripture study, I learned that what was most important for Nephi 
at the end of his life was that we know that he spoke Christ's words 
and had charity. His own accomplishments were relatively 
unimportant to him. 

37.5028° N, 122.257° W 

TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016 AT 9:22 PM 

Good day today. Unfortunately, I'm filling this in several days later, 
because I was deficient in my journal writing this week (gotta work 
on that), so there may be some memory gaps. Anyway, in work I 
continued to make progress on the response rate analyzer. After 
talking to Dante, I was able to get a fast method of appending state 
information to the columns by making a separate state info data 
frame during the transform and joining it after all the filtering was 
done. Yay! After work, I watched more Swift lectures on 
Multithreading, and went to institute with Brother Johnson, where 
we discussed part 1 of a reflection on Nephi's life. We talked about 
how had gone from gung-ho go and do to perhaps a more mellow, 
mature state of focusing on charity and the doctrine of Christ, 
recognizing his failings in becoming angry with his brothers. I also 
did some more Endless Legend, trouncing some insectoids who 
colonized a prime land spot. 
In scripture study, I learned that when we see people who wander, 
we often fall prey to the fundamental attribution error, assuming it's 
their fault, while neglecting the circumstances that led them there. 
Who knows, but that we were in the same situation, we might do the 
same? 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016 AT 11:27 PM 

Good day today. Did documentation on Response Rate tool. Talked 
about our deep dive presentation on our tools with Manny. Christina, 
the executive assistant, gave a fun lunch and learn presentation on 
the International Phonetic Alphabet. After work, I played a bit of 
Endless Legend, and continued to do better courtesy of easy mode. 
I also learned about Table Views in Swift. 
In scripture study, I thought about how I might foolishly “counsel the 
Lord” when I seek exception to His commandments. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016 AT 11:33 PM 

Good day today. Worked on experiment time indexing issues at 
work. I believe I resolved them by building my own max valid 
experiment time index. I also discovered an error where the SMS 
data frame didn't have sufficient messages. I brought it to Dante and 
he said it looked like there was a problem with Pensieve not getting 
the data properly from Mercury. I'm considering writing a 
generalized test function for the response rate analyzer. Could be 
useful if it doesn't take too much time. I'd have to test time indices 
separately though. Anyway, I went into work early and left early so I 
could get to my TSA Precheck appointment. I thought I'd given 
myself enough time, but I ran into traffic, getting there 5 minutes 
late. Then I couldn't find the building (turns out it was in an H&R 
Block), but there was no trouble after that (although my attendant 
did engage in two-finger typing). After that, I went back to campus 
to go to dinner, then picked up Angela to go on a hike in Edgewood 
Park. We took the same trail Kent and I did (but at a faster clip with 
fewer wrong turns and no wildlife sightings). We chatted about our 
work/research, plans, and her spring trip to Africa/Europe, which 
sounded amazing. It was a fun break and a good chance to get to 
know her better. That's about it for today. 
In scripture study, I listened to the Allegory of the Olive Vineyard in 
Jacob 5. One thought was that, we can think of the trees as 
ourselves, going through personal cycles of spirituality and 
worldliness, needing to balance the roots of the gospel with the 
branches of our jobs, play, and other aspects of our lives. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016 AT 9:29 PM 

Good day today. I spent most of work writing test code for the 
response rate tool, which I called “the big test.” I finished all the 
code for snapshot stats (and it passed!), now I need to do a similar 
pattern for cumulative stats. I also good feedback on the tool's 
output from Emilia, a designer in Mexico City. After work, I went 
home and tried to start on the next Swift assignment but mostly 
battled to get the right download files organized in my workspace. I 
also wasted time watching Command and Conquer Red Alert videos 
considering if I would get it because it's on sale. I decided against it. 
I don't like the way the cutscenes objectify women. I did get a fun 
game on sale called “Offworld Trading Company”, which is an RTS 
trading game set on Mars. In one of the training missions called 
“The Art of the Deal”, a business mogul says that he's going to build 
big, beautiful businesses on Mars, just like his hands, and that he's 
going to make the colonies pay for it. I actually laughed out loud at 
the Donald Trump reference. 
In scripture study, I learned that I sometimes unrighteously ask God 
for signs when I refuse to act for myself and make carefully 
considered choices, instead arbitrarily asking that He tell me the 
answer. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, AUGUST 27, 2016 AT 3:01 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, my companion and I helped Jared 
Weaver, a grad student in chemistry who I home teach, move to his 
housing on campus. In the afternoon, I played some Offworld 
Trading Company and started on the Swift assignment. At 6:00 I 
headed to the stake center for choir practice, then immediately after 
that we had the adult session of Stake a Conference, with Bishop 
Caussé presiding. The music went well (and Kent came to listen!), 
and the part of “Abide With Me” in which the congregation joined 
in gave me chills. The talks were good: a discussion on making the 
Sabbath a delight, and inviting people to come and follow Christ 
(including ourselves). After the conference, I went to John Lambert's 
house to hang out with the LDSSA for ice cream (that being a very 
small number of people, since Summer housing has ended. As Enya 
says, “My! My! Time flies!”). Angela, Oscar, and Amanda were there 
too, and Scotty and his wife Jackie joined us later. (Carolyn, the 
Lambert family's adorable golden retriever, also was very present). 
After that, I went back, played a session of Offworld, and then 
worked way too late on the Swift Twitter assignment. That probably 
wasn't in the spirit of delighting in the Sabbath. 
In scripture study, I learned that the marginal investment of just a few 
extra minutes in prayer, a little more focus I scripture study, thinking 
about just one other person to help, can have a big impact, as it did 
with Enos and seeking revelation. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 28, 2016 AT 3:11 PM 

By most accounts this week was good. I was able to hike with 
Angela, which was really fun, and spend time with the LDSSA, help 
Jared move, sing in the choir at stake conference, and attend two 
sessions, go to institute, get errands done, make progress on my 
Swift class, and not play too much on the computer. Yet today I'm 
feeling anxious about the coming academic year: finalizing my 
classes, whether or not I'll do chorale again, and things like that. 
Today with Kent, Mom, and Dad, I hope to discuss those things and 
air my concerns. I also will devote more time this week to planning 
next quarter's schedule, and even making a three year plan. That 
should help resolve some of the anxieties. This past week, I did fall 
short in keeping my thoughts clean a bit, and I feel like my scripture 
study was constantly interrupted by movement, even though I out in 
the time. When studying and praying, I need to be more still. I also 
need to kick it into high gear in this Swift class, and, if I'm doing 
chorale, prepare a song. So, there's lots to do. At least in the temple 
last week I felt peace that if I do my due diligence, the Lord will help 
me have a great year. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 73° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, AUGUST 28, 2016 AT 10:34 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Had stake conference in the morning, which 
was good. President Wilson talked about finding joy in the gospel, 
which is something that I could be better at. It is easy to view some 
things simply as duty or even drudgery. Bishop Caussé discussed the 
fruits of the restoration in our lives, from the first vision facilitating a 
more intimate relationship with God to the restoration of the 
priesthood allowing it to penetrate our homes. After the conference, 
I grabbed lunch and did some study and updating of my journal. 
Today, I felt anxious about my classes and extracurriculars for the 
coming year, especially whether or not I'll do chorale. I consulted 
with Kent about it and want to talk with my parents. Mostly I guess 
I'm anxious about re-auditioning, but there's also the time 
commitment. Maybe I could do research. I prayed for a long time 
about my anxieties, and I actually felt much better after doing that 
and reading about the Lord's “arms of mercy.” That definitely was a 
blessing. Kent came over for the family call and then dinner at 
Arriliaga. After that, we went to a Hearth fireside, where Carol Lynn 
Pearson, author of “Goodbye, I Love You” and “No More 
Goodbyes” (which I read last summer) spoke. That was the highlight 
of the day. I loved the way that she referenced Jesus that the 
greatest among us should be servants, that LGBT members are often 
considered the least among us, yet, like the poor wayfaring man of 
grief, they have the spark of divinity. It just makes me think over and 
over about 2 Nephi 26. 
23 For behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you that the Lord 
God worketh not in darkness. 

24 He doeth not anything save it be for the benefit of the world; for 
he loveth the world, even that he layeth down his own life that he 
may draw all men unto him. Wherefore, he commandeth none that 
they shall not partake of his salvation. 

25 Behold, doth he cry unto any, saying: Depart from me? Behold, I 
say unto you, Nay; but he saith: Come unto me all ye ends of the 
earth, buy milk and honey, without money and without price. 

26 Behold, hath he commanded any that they should depart out of 
the synagogues, or out of the houses of worship? Behold, I say unto 
you, Nay. 

27 Hath he commanded any that they should not partake of his 
salvation? Behold I say unto you, Nay; but he hath given it free for all 
men; and he hath commanded his people that they should persuade 
all men to repentance. 

28 Behold, hath the Lord commanded any that they should not 
partake of his goodness? Behold I say unto you, Nay; but all men are 
privileged the one like unto the other, and none are forbidden. 

I don't think Nephi can be any more clear. We must do more to 
invite all to come and partake of the salvation of the Lord. As Sister 
Pearson said, it doesn't matter whether we confess love for others, it 
matters that they feel it. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 2016 AT 11:11 PM 

Good day today. Lots of errands. At work, I continued polishing the 
Respond Rate Analyzer and got it to basically pass all my tests 
(except the cumulative positive response rates, which I haven't done 
yet). After work, I picked up groceries at Walgreens, got my hair cut, 
and ranked my PWR classes for next quarter. (I can't believe that it 
slipped my mind that I'd been assigned to Autumn PWR until 
Sunday. Good thing Heavenly Father prompted me to remind me to 
rank them before the September 1 deadline!) I did one round of 
Offworld, and fiddled with my Swift Twitter client. 
In scripture study, I learned that I can do nothing of value without the 
Lord. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016 AT 11:42 PM 

Very good day today. (I guess?) But not in the conventional sense. In 
the morning, Manny and I talked about the tools that we'd worked 
on during the summer, and were graciously received. Speaking of 
which, today I finally submitted a pull request for the response rate 
analyzer and meta synthesis tools, so hopefully they'll soon see the 
light of day! I also listens to some of the score of “Hamilton” at work, 
but realized that my Spotify was on shuffle, and so was thoroughly 
confused. After work, I called Mom and Dad about deciding whether 
or not to do chorale this year (which I'd emailed them about earlier). 
For reasons that I don't fully understand, this is a very stressful 
decision for me, and I found myself tearing up a bit during the call. 
Maybe it's just that I'm stressed out over the prospect of auditioning 
and evil sight reading. It's silly to hinge a year's decision on five 
minutes like that, but it's hard to say how that might affect my 
evaluation of the time commitment of chorale. Anyway, the plan is to 
feel out the research opportunities available and make a decision 
based on more information. So, I drafted some emails to my JDM 
professor and a CURIS HCI professor. Hopefully those hit the mark. I 
also went to institute this evening (sadly the last institute class of the 
quarter). Brother Johnson gave an excellent lesson on the sum of 

Nephi's life: a man who struggled with imperfection, abuse, and 
despair, who's earlier zeal of “I will go and go” was tempered by his 
experiences into an understanding that he, and we, are nothing 
without Christ. His words became Christ's, and instead of extolling 
his own deeds, he simply cared that we follow the Savior. Right now, 
I feel a bit like “Nephi in transition” in the early parts of 2 Nephi, 
with many decisions to make and more than a few insecurities. But in 
the lesson, I did feel that I am nothing without Christ but through 

Him I can do all things. Even decide about my activities next year .. 


554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° PARTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2016 AT 11:32 PM 

Good day today. 'Twas work from home Wednesday, and all through 
the dorm, not a creature was sleeping, because they were gone. 
Except for Gordon, that is. He spoke not a word, but went straight to 
his work, and battled with heatmaps and Postgres and install. Yet I 
heard him exclaim, ere he turned off the light, “Merry Pull Request 
to all, and to all, a good night!” 
Now for the interpretation thereof. As I mentioned, I worked from 
home, although battling database connection issues and the inability 
to run the shiny app locally probably harmed productivity. Dante 
reviewed my pull request today and said that he was “blown away” 
by the quality and completeness of the code, so I'm grateful for that. 
Caleb gave a cool lunch and learn on prime factorization and 
encryption. I continued to do errands and sniff out research assistant 
opportunities. I sent and email to Professor Poldrack and drafted an 
email to an HCI professor, which I will send as soon as Kent reviews 
my resume, which I revised today. I don't think I'm qualified for any 
of the other CURIS positions, so I'm going to look into more SymSys 
and Pscyh opportunities. I just hope I can get stuff out fast enough 
to get info back and make a decision. I also made progress on Swift, 
getting the images in rows to size themselves, hiding unused 
sections, and segueing to a search or a website when the user clicks 
on a mention. Lots of productive stuff. Kent invited me to come see 
a show tonight, but I demurred because of too much work. 
Hopefully I can get this research/chorale thing resolved soon. 
In scripture study, I learned that, because of Christ, the crucial 
decisions for happiness and salvation are in my control, and the rest I 
don't have to worry about as much. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

September 2016 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016 AT 11:28 PM 

Good day today. I can't believe it's September already. (Insert 
musings about the subjective nature of time and its perception as 
moving am faster when one is an adult.) And with September comes 
the end of my meal plan, apparently, so I'll need a way to fix that. At 
work, it was the day the technology stood still. Caleb and I still 
couldn't figure out why my laptop couldn't connect to the database, 
Mercury kept crashing when I tried to do configurations, and I had 
trouble getting the Shiny Dashboard to work… Oh well. That's how 
it is sometimes. Professor Poldrack emailed me back and we set up a 
meeting for Tuesday, which is encouraging. (Actually he emailed me 
back yesterday but it went to my work email so I didn't see it.) After 
making some of Kent's suggested edits to my resume, I sent it off to 
a CURIS HCI professor in an email asking for more information about 
research opportunities. So, good progress there. In Swift, I got all my 
segues organized so you can search the mention URLs, users, or 
hashtags just by touching them, and you can tap a picture in the 
mentions section to get a scroll view of it (although I'm still ironing 
out that part). Played 1 round of Offworld and crushed my 
opponents by buying 26 colony buildings to their 13 and 3. Rah. 
In scripture study, I reflected on my own blessed and happy state 
from keeping the commandments of God (Mosiah 2:41), and found 
that three were many blessings. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016 AT 9:30 AM 

Good day today. After discovering yesterday that my meal plan had 
run out, I was able to call in and extend it for the next two weeks. At 
work, I finally was able to make good progress on the experiment 
dashboard, getting working versions of the fixed facet pick list and 
conditional UI, although I'm still not sure how I should scale by rows 
of columns. I was also able to start work on the state mode of the 
response rate analyzer, which I think works a bit differently because 
you don't care about time periods in that mode. After work, I made 
some progress on my Swift Twitter client and got a new game, called 
“The Fall” about a robot trying to protect its unconscious human 
pilot in its suit, no matter the cost. 
In scripture study, I learned that, less important that how much 
money we have is whether we covet it or give it away freely. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2016 AT 11:36 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, I watched a Swift lecture and 
mostly wrapped up my Twitter client. I need to keep on those 
lectures, since I only really have two weeks to go. It's crazy to think 
how soon school is coming up! In the afternoon, I finished The Fall 
(It's a short game.) to the shocking revelation that your pilot was 
never there. The suit was empty the whole time (your health 
monitors were broken so you couldn't tell). The game brought up 
some interesting questions about how robots follow rules and 
interact with each other. I also finally went to see Finding Dory today, 
which I really enjoyed. I'd say it's just about as good as Finding 
Nemo (pretty similar plot, actually). It had some nice tender 
moments, like when Marlin was asked if he knew what it was like to 
lose his family. So that was a fun long weekend activity. 
In scripture study, I learned that revelation is one way that I can be 
one a great benefit to my fellow beings (which will ultimately make 
me happier). So observe, receive revelation, serve. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2016 AT 10:32 AM 

This week I feel like I worked hard and accomplished a lot. I was able 
to revise my resume, set up a meeting with Russ Poldrack, my JDM 
professor, to talk about working in his lab, pick my PWR classes (one 
step closer to finalizing my schedule), basically finish up the next 
Swift assignment, and get errands done like getting my hair cut and 
picking up a new parking pass (although I still need to change the 
car oil changed). Spiritually, I feel like I did a pretty good job keeping 
my thoughts clean (the key is staying occupied and not becoming 
bored) and didn't play computer games that much, except on 
Saturday (but very little Monday through Thursday). I think I'm closer 
to a decision on Chorale. If all goes well with Russ, I think I'll do 
research instead of chorale. There are some things this week I'd like 
to improve on. For example, I'd like to spend more time with friends, 
although most are gone. Will need to figure that out. I always did my 
scripture study, but wasn't always focused, because it was divided 
between the dining hall and my dorm. I'm not sure of the best way 
to fix that besides waking up earlier. I'd like to do more service. 
Tutoring would be nice, but I'll only be here for two weeks. I can ask 
Brianne about that today. I need to be a little more still in my 
prayers. I had some good ones this week, and good spiritual 

experiences as I worried about the coming year, but I need to listen 
that hard not only when I am in exigencies. I should definitely try to 
spend some time with Kent after he gets back, do some last fun stuff 
for the summer. Also, I should tidy up my room a bit. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2016 AT 10:44 PM 

Good Sabbath today. In the morning I cleaned up my room a bit, 
unsuccessfully tried to remember where I'd put Kent's bike keys for 
safekeeping, and started reading my mission journal, from the very 
beginning. This will be the first time I've read it cover to cover, and 
the first time that I've re-read some of these entries since I've written 
them. It represents probably hundreds of hours of writing, so it will 
take a while. Right now I'm near the start of transfer 3, my first with 
Elder Palau. Two insights: one, which I shared in fast and testimony 
meeting today, comes under the theme that “God is a God of 
miracles.” It is interesting to reread my journal with the perspective 
of having served my entire mission. I can see that some things I was 
worried about in the moment actually turned out alright. For 
example, on the day of the Suber's baptism, I noted that “We're 
now down to zero investigators.” Yet literally the next day, Claudia 
and Ana show up at church, some basically golden investigators 
who'd later get baptized! God can definitely change our seemingly 
intractable situations quickly. Second, I find it interesting that, as I 
read and feel reinstated in the context of my mission, I feel a desire 
to rush to the happy ending, the good memories where I see my 
family again. (Sometimes I have to draw myself out of the immersion, 
checking my texts from my family and wondering that I actually can 
communicate with them whenever I want.) Yet I am determined to 
read my journal linearly, and there are miles to go before I sleep. I'm 
thinking of writing Spencer Segal, a Stanford student who just left on 
his mission. I want to collect my thoughts from my whole mission 
more before doing it though… Maybe I could include one thing I 
learned from re-reading my mission journals in each email I sent him. 
I can ask him about that. Anyway, biking home from church, I saw 
Julia Rosedale, from chorale lugging a bunch of boxes on rolling 
chairs along the sidewalk with a friend. I stopped and offered to help 
and she accepted. (She didn't ask why I was in a suit.) So, I'm glad 
that I could do a good turn for the day. (Why is it called a “turn” 
anyway?) Besides that, I wrote in my Evernote and thought a bit 
about questions/comments for my meeting with Russ on Tuesday. 
Tomorrow is Labor Day. Yay! 
In scripture study, I learned that I will be happier as I care for others 
more. I also got to share some thoughts on home teaching in Elder's 
Quorum for a newly baptized member. I told the story a of how I 
used to get annoyed that Dad talked so long on his home teaching 
visits before sharing the lesson, then I realized that the conversation 
was a key part of the home teaching. I also got the chance to bless 
the sacrament today, so there was lots of good spiritual stuff going 
on. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2016 AT 11:35 PM 

Good Labor Day today. Took it pretty easy. Did a lot of Swift. Played 
a new game called “Oxenfree” about teenagers on an island in a 
ghost story setting. Very atmospheric. Excellent dialogue. It really 
does sound like teenagers stuck in a situation they don't understand. 
In scripture study, I pondered how excessive zeal for things like 
academic achievement or games could blind me to the more 
important duties of the gospel. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016 AT 4:37 PM 

Good day today. This morning I met with Russ Poldrack, my old JDM 
teacher, to discuss opportunities working as a research assistant in 
his lab. He was very reaponsive and put me in contact with a PhD 
student doing things related to behavior change. They have two 
main behavior change projects going on. One is trying to see if they 
can change the way people value things behaviorally and then later 
look at it in the MRI. The other is trying to create an ontology for 
“self control”. They both seem quite intriguing, so it will be 
interesting to hear more about the specific opportunities when I 
meet with Patrick, the PhD student, next week. At work, I mostly 
wrapped up testing the state mode of the response rate analyzer. I 
was able to use the same scheme as with time period mode to write 
flexible tests for it, which is helpful. After work, I went to institute, 
where a new round of classes started up. I joined Brother Johnson's 
class on the gospels, although I'll be there all of two weeks. We had 
a good discussion about the Atonement. I also played more of 
“Oxenfree” as the plot thickened and we searched for a way to 
escape the haunted island. 
In scripture study, I learned that your leaders and role models will 
change you, as king Noah did his people, so you should choose 
them carefully. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 79° MOSTLY SUNNY 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2016 AT 11:57 PM 

Good day today. Made good progress on the state mode for the 
response rate tool. I finished playing “Oxenfree”, which was a great 
game. It had a generally happy ending with a little bit of ambiguity 
(personally, I think it suggests that the characters go free but you, 
the player, get trapped back in the island). Great atmosphere 
though. I'll definitely have to replay to see how things might change. 
In scripture study, I pondered my spiritual lineage, which I can 
cultivate through sacrifice for others. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016 AT 4:45 PM 

Good day today. I had several meetings at work, including going 
through the response rate tool with Miri, and going through the 
usage of both that tool and the synthesis tool with the data team. I 
got good feedback on some tweaks I could make to both and 
columns I could add, so as soon as I test those, it should be good to 
go out into the wild! I also had a meeting about increasing our 
configuration efficiency. Kyle's pushing it to migrate to code. It 
would actually be super cool if there was an “Xcode” for 
configuration where you could visually link up states in a 
“storyboard” and make fine-tuned adjustments in code, such as 
more complex logic. I think that's a pie-in-the-sky dream though. I 
also had lunch with Dante, and we discussed my impressions from 
my internship. (He'll be out of office next week because his wife is 
pregnant and getting induced over the weekend.) He was obviously 
impressed with my work and even jokingly asked, “So when do you 
want to start full time?” Heavenly Father has definitely blessed me 
this summer (in addition to blessing me to have this job in the first 
place). Dante said I had a good ability to decompose problems and 
code into logical steps. I guess that's a fulfillment of my “problem-
solving inspiration” discussed in my patriarchal blessing. After work, I 
played some games but couldn't find one that hit the spot. 
In scripture study, I learned that I should keep the commandments 
for the right reasons, out of a desire to be more like Christ, and not 
just to comply because I “should”. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY SUNNY 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016 AT 4:13 PM 

Good day today. I wrapped up some tweaks to state mode and the 
synthesis tool based on feedback from Miri and the data team and 
submitted a pull request to get everything merged into 
development so my changes can go into lentils! Yay! I also got 
scaling to work (I think) on the heatmap, although I'll need to do 
some more testing and iron out the bugs. After work, I played some 
of Star Wars: The Old Republic. It's a fun game, but the thing I don't 
like about MMOs is that, no matter what you do, the world never 
really changes. Instead, there are just the same goons as there 
always were popping up. Probably symbolic of the futility of video 
games. I also read too much “Pearls Before Swine” as I finally 
finished reading “The Lucifer Effect” by Phil Zimbardo, which I 
thought was a rather mediocre book, although the in-depth 
description of the Stanford Prison Experiment was good. 
In scripture study, I learned that I should take diverse council, unlike 
King Noah, who surrounded himself with yes-men. 

37.4385° N, 122.159° W • 70° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2016 AT 10:28 PM 

Good day today. I discovered yesterday when trying to work on Swift 
that my storyboard for my Twitter app had mysteriously disappeared! 
I must have accidentally trashed it somehow and then emptied the 
trash. So, I had to rebuild that today, as well as try to get my core 
data so it shows all the mentions associated with a search term. I 
think I'm most of the way there. I also watched a Swift lecture on 
animation, got my car pile changed, and got a flu shot. Additionally, 
I went out with Thomas Cook to drop some cookies off at Marcos 
Casías's apartment, only to find that he wasn't there. I played more 
of The Old Republic, which is kind of same old, same old. I also 
started playing “The Road to Gehenna”, which is an expansion pack 
for the puzzle game “The Talos Principle.” It seems very engaging. 
In scripture study, I learned that I should rush to judgment about 
others and presume bad intent. Observe, think about how their 
situation might have led them to act this way, and treat them with 
kindness. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2016 AT 10:14 AM 

This week I feel was generally mediocre. I did a fair amount of Swift 
on Monday, but could have done more the rest of the week. I also 
played too much computer games, esp. on Friday and somewhat on 
Saturday. This coming week, I'll need to diversify my activities a little 
more. I actually did a lot of reading, finishing up “Conspiracy of 
Fools” and “The Lucifer Effect” and starting “The Screwtape 
Letters” and “Slaughterhouse Five.” Which reminds me, I'll need to 
cancel my audible subscription. I did a pretty good job at getting 
errands done this week, so I didn't just sit around and do nothing. I 
should do a little prep for my meeting with Patrick on Tuesday, just 
so I have coherent questions for him. I did pretty well with prayer 
and scripture study. I could just reduce the “rushed” affect of my 
prayers sometimes. Even if they're the same length, I can approach 
them with more of a sense of calm than “I need to get through this 
and go on to the next thing.” I could also do a better job at keeping 
my journal up-to-date. This coming week, I'll do Swift every day for 
at least 30 minutes, have at least one non-Sunday when I don't play 
computer games, and… I should have one cool end-of-summer 
activity. I don't know what. And I'll do some indexing. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2016 AT 9:50 PM 

Good Sabbath today. It's the 15th Anniversary of the September 11 
attacks. I remember coming home from school and seeing that the 
TV was on, and Mom and Dad talking with Kent and me about how 
sometimes bad people do bad things. Crazy to think I was alive to 
see that. Anyway, Jason and I home taught Jared in the morning and 
talked about love. I brought up Carol Lynn Pearson's quote that the 
love we profess must be felt for it to be true. Afterwards, we sat in 
on a lesson with Marcos on the Plan of Salvation. Church was good. 
The talks were a little rambly, but I liked the second hour lesson 
where we discussed fear, in our lives and fear of God. And 
Priesthood was on marriage, as must be the custom at least once a 
month. After church I Skyped with my family, although Kent had 
many more adventures to report than I did. After that and dinner, I 
wrote my Evernote, did some indexing, wrote to Grandma Carol and 
Grandpa Kent, and read a bit in my mission journal. So much joy, so 
much pain. 
In scripture study, I thought about how I can make sure that others 
feel my love. I thought about Catherine and taking time during finals 
week to come by with some gum and a note of encouragement. 
That was really meaningful to me, much more so than words alone. 
So, so must act if I am to show that I care about others. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016 AT 11:10 PM 

Good day today. Made good progress on the heatmap revisions at 
work, although there seems to be a mismatch between the input 
data and the input metadata, which I've never touched. Will need to 
look into that. After work, I did some Swift, played “The Talos 
Principle”, and prepped a little for my meeting with Patrick 
tomorrow. 
In scripture study, I learned that the desire to shift responsibility away 
from ourselves is one way we show we want a “king” in our times. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY SUNNY 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016 AT 11:36 PM 

Good day today. Wrapped up heatmap functions and discovered a 
bug in the cohort analyzer that I tracked down and addressed. I also 
thought a bit about response rate analyzer visualization same met 
with Kate from Business Development about them. In went into the 
office early so I could leave early to go to a meeting with Patrick, the 
post-doc who I'll be primarily working with in Russ's lab. He 
discussed some of his projects, which Russ had already introduced to 
me, and they seemed quite interesting. I may end up running some 
MRI scans, not unlike Kent! After that, I had dinner and did some 
Swift. I also went to tutoring and helped a girl with her 9th grade 
algebra. I only epically failed one problem (which, of course I can 
solve in 30 seconds when retrying it now). At least I ended up 
showing her the right equations in the end. In institute we discussed 
the annunciation and how bewildering if must have been for all 
involved, yet it gave way to peace. 
In scripture study (I listened in the car on the way to my early 
morning.), I learned about the liberation of the people of Alma. I 
admire how Alma's people's first impulse was to thank God after 
being freed, even before fleeing very far! 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016 AT 11:32 PM 

Good day today. It was work from home Wednesday but I went into 
the office anyway so I could be more productive. I started work on 
the response rate dashboard and made good progress getting some 
of the UI going. Lots of beautiful buttons and conditional formatting. 
After work, I did more coding in Swift for breakout. I took s brief 
break for a glorious match of XCOM and a puzzle in The Talos 
Principle. I also started listening to “In the Garden of Beasts”, which 
is decently good, although ai'm used to the narrative style of Kurt 
Eichenvalts. 
In scripture study, I learned that Alma the Elder chose faith over 
bewilderment when hearing that his son had seen an angel and was 
unresponsive. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016 AT 12:15 AM 

Good day today. At work, I whaled on the Shiny Dashboards, 
submitting a pull request for my heatmap improvements, making 
another tweak to the experiment dashboard, and adding two graphs 
to the response rate dashboard. I'm sad that my internship ends 
tomorrow. I'm having so much fun working on this dashboard, I 
literally don't want it to end. It's hard to believe that I'm getting paid 
to do this. Anyway, after work, Kent came over to have dinner and 
help me move. Over dinner, he told me an uncensored (well, less 
censored) version of his trip to Utah last week. Apparently he got 
high with Christian, since he'd never done it before, went to a gay 
club, danced, and made out with someone, and there may or may 
not have been alcohol. (He referenced “pre-gaming” before going 
to the club, so I wouldn't be terribly surprised had he been drinking.) 
Wow. 
I don't know exactly what I should have said, so I just gently probed 
for more information. I guess that kind of behavior just makes me 
worried, and a little sad. I had not anticipated that tonight Kent 
would be telling me about what it feels like to be high on drugs. As 
Kurt Vonnegut would say, “So it goes.” Of course, he shared all of 
this on the condition that I not tell it to Mom and Dad. Oh yes, and 
after talking over the kissing incident with Brandon, he's decided to 
break up with him. So, Kent is full of drama as usual. I'm not sure 
what I can or should do to help. Of course I would prefer that he not 
drink, get high, go clubbing, or leave the church. But, I don't want 
any sort of intervention I make to to hurt our relationship of trust and 
make him defensive, which could be counterproductive. On the 
other hand, Kent did say that he came home from the trip feeling 
disillusioned (and he insinuated rather guilty) with the post-Mormon 
group there and their pendulum swing toward unrestricted 
hedonism. It reminds me of the Amalekites in the Book of Mormon, 
who were even more extreme than the Lamanites because they'd 
known the truth and rejected it. I guess once you're familiar with the 
church, it's hard to take a middle ground. Anyway, an moved into my 
new room, which is so uncannily like my old room that it's hard to tell 
the difference. (Never leave the building, everything looks the same 
in the end. That's my kind of move!) I played s bit of the Talos 
Principle and coded more dashboard stuff. 
In scripture study, I learned that one reason people wanted a king 
was to deflect responsibility. I should avoid the temptation to do that 
with my own leaders. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016 AT 8:59 PM 


Good day today. It was my last day at work today. Aww… sadness. 
At work, I whaled on the response rate dashboard, and was actually 
able to add some cool features. On a graph that shows when each 
state was sent in terms of the experiment start time, you can how're 
over a dot and it will show you the state ID and text. I implemented 
a text search ability where you can search for a combination of words 
and will be shown the response rates (both of those who received 
the state and those in the whole group/cohort) to states with that 
text, states without that text, and the overall average. In the same 
search bar you use to add text search terms, you can type a state ID 
and the text for that state will appear. I also totally parameterized the 
main page plots so you can also select any numeric metric in the 
response rate analyzer output and it will plot the top five states in 
the selected cohort(s) and that metric for each state on a chart 
showing when that state was sent out in terms of experiment time 
index. So, it was a very productive day. There was also a little send-
off for me in the afternoon where we had “chocolate overload” and 
people asked me about my experience at Juntos and my future 
plans. People were very complementary to my work, and the data 
team said that I'd essentially done the same tasks as they had, so I 
was “one of them.” Kyle even immortalized me in “Data Analyst 
Weekly”! I've really enjoyed working at Juntos, even more than I 
thought I would. It has a great community, great lunch discussions, 
and very engaging work that's more than money grubbing. I hope I 
can take what I've learned there and find the same spirit in my future 
work. Anyway, after work I packed and did laundry, nothing too 
exciting. Tomorrow I leave for Austin. 
In scripture study, I learned that a Nehorian idea I should avoid is the 
trivialization of repentance. I should really remember that it is 
something weighty which was bought at great cost. 

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2016 AT 9:17 PM 

Good day today. I woke up naturally early and decided took go on a 
run, which I normally don't do on Saturday. I finished up packing and 
did a bit of Swift and playing (I can't figure out how to get my ball to 
love in breakout. The push is created and called, but nothing 
happens.) A little before noon, I drove over to Kent's apartment, to 
help him move to Idlewyld, the definitely-not-a-commune place 
where he'll be living next year. After that, we went to lunch at Lyfe 
Kitchen, a nice healthy place in Palo Alto which we judged (correctly) 
was sufficiently aversive to the tailgaters to tonight's football game 
to drive them away. After that, we drove to the airport, returned 
Kent's rental car, and got on our flight to Austin. I watched a Swift 
lecture onboard and continued, unsuccessfully, to try to get that ball 
to move. We then took a Wyngz ride to the Hotel Granduca, a truly 
opulent affair, where we met our parents 
In scripture study, I thought about how our modern data trails and 
social media profiles “mark” us just as publicly as the Amlicites did 
when they painted their foreheads, for good or ill. 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2016 AT 6:48 AM 

This week was good overall. I was very productive at work and was 
touched by the thanks people gave me. I've really enjoyed working 
at Juntos over the summer and was glad that Heavenly Father 
guided me there, from bumping into them at the career fair to 
getting their data assignment right after going to the temple to 
getting a job offer from them right after fasting about finding what 
to do over the summer. I'm very grateful for the experience I had 
there. This week I did a fairly good job at scripture study, although I 
feel like it was often interrupted. I made a point to get time in, even 
if it was in the car. I like that I was able to use some of my commute 
time to pray (like Maribel!). I should keep doing that when I bike to 
and fro on campus. This week, since I'm on vacation and not my 
normal routine, I'll need to make sure that I pray and read 
consistently. I should also take care of other asuntos before school, 
like research, looking for books, etc. I'm looking forward to this 
vacation, though, and should make sure that my focus is on enjoying 
my time with my family. 

AUSTIN, TX, UNITED STATES • 77° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2016 AT 8:33 PM 


Good day today. We woke up early-ish to go to the Anderson Mill 
ward for Sacrament meeting and Blake meeting. Sacrament meeting 
was fine, although the talks were delivered rather dryly. There were a 
surprising number of people who recognized us came up to speak 
with us after Sacrament meeting. I only remembered two families: 
the Lackeys and the Smiths. Sister Lackey was my fifth grade teacher, 
and Padre would home teach the Smiths and Kent and I would come 
over and jump on their trampoline. I occasionally would play with 
Chase, who is my age. After church, we went down to the county 
line for an exceedingly glorious (if greasy) lunch. We devoured an 
entire loaf of bread bread and a whole “big daddy” rack of ribs. It 
was just as good as I remembered. We also went to feed the turtles 
and fish on the river behind the restaurant, just like old times. After 
our meal, we went back to the hotel to change and lounge in the 
pool. We left again around 4:30 to go see our old house, which 
really hasn't changed much on the outside, except that the tree we 
planted out front is now ginormous. That's rather disturbing. We also 
went to see the park by the Dance's, the park by the pool, and the 
paths behind that park. We then headed over to see Canyon Ridge 
Middle School, where Kent went, and Steiner Ranch Elementary 
School, and wanders around the playground that was our old 
stomping ground (where we also launched model rockets and 
unsuccessfully flew model planes). We went to a park by Mansfield 
dam, which I don't think we'd ever been to, but had nice views of 
the lake. After that, we went to eat at The Oasis, which seems more 
tourist-trappy than ever, but does have beautiful views of Lake Travis. 
We watched the sunset there. After returning to our hotel, Madre 
and I attempted to de-greasify by running on the elliptical. Then 
Kent and I played some pool (and I won both games!). Kentre has 
been rather sleepy today. Perhaps it's just the sun. 
Anyway, in scripture study, I read about Alma abandoning the 
judgement seat to bear down in pure testimony and rescue his 
people. I, too, am sure that I will have to abandon attractive worldly 
opportunities so I can do what I know is right. I'll need to be 
prepared to do that when the time comes. 

AUSTIN, TX, UNITED STATES • 86° CLEAR 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016 AT 7:52 AM 

Good day today. Madre and I woke up to exercise on the ellipticals 
in the morning. We then left as a family a little later of have brunch 
at Kirby Lane, a pancake place near our house. We then headed into 
the city to visit the Bob Bullock Texas History Museum. It was quite 
similar to what I remembered, although they added a new exhibit on 
a sunken French ship that they'd dredged from a bay in Texas. We 
also watched several short movies in their theatre: a rather mediocre 
one about the sink ship, the Story of Texas, which hadn't changed 
since the museum opened, and “World of Tomorrow”, which was 
dark chocolate. It was this animated short about a third-generation 
clone who visits her prime ancestor as a toddler. She shows her this 
rather dystopian future in which people have basically lose their 
humanity to immersion in technology and a pursuit of living forever, 
although the their lives are empty. It seemed like the show belonged 
more in an art museum than the Texas State History Museum. We 
did walk over and briefly visit the art museum on campus, which had 
a Gutenberg Bible and a random photography exhibit. We then had 
a lovely (and meat-filled) dinner at the Four Seasons. On the way 
back, we decided to stop by the arboretum, where we had Amy's Ice 
Cream for dessert, took picture on the cows in the park, and fed the 
ducks on the pond (which were mostly geese, actually). After getting 
back, Kent and I played several games of pool and I lost miserably. I 
then topped off the night by starting to read “Harry Potter and the 
Cursed Child”, a new play by JK Rowling about a middle-aged 
Potter. 
In scripture study, I learned that I must be striped of pride. 

30.2329° N, 97.9216° W 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016 AT 8:20 AM 


Good day today. In the morning, we drove down to Johnson City, 
the birthplace of Lyndon B. Johnson, and went to a ranch to ride on 
some horses. (Kentre has been very excited about the “horsies” ever 
since he started planning this trip.) We rode for about an hour and a 
half, and since we were doing it in the morning with a slight breeze, 
the temperature wasn't too bad. Both Kent and my horses were 
quite obedient, but Padre and Madre's horses kept wanting to stop 
to eat the grass. After a while, Padre made an arrangement with his 
horse that he could stop to eat if he'd then trot to catch up to the 
next horse in line. (We discovered this when my horse tried to pass 
his, and then his horse suddenly broke into a trot.) The ride was fun, 
although we were all tired from the heat and exertion by the end. 
(Madre complained that her butatah would never be the same.) We 
had lunch at a nice local restaurant with lots of high school swag, 
and got cooling desserts at Dairy Queen. We then took a tour of 
LBJ's boyhood home in the city, which was smallish, but was the 
location where he launched his political career. After that, we drove 
to his ranch, getting to the “Texas White House” by a circuitous 
route that caused much freakification (although it was the correct 
route, may I point out). We watched a movie about the house and 
saw “Air Force One-Half”, the shuttle plane that would take LBJ 
from Austin to his ranch (where he spent a quarter of his presidency). 
We also toured the Texas White House itself, which was large, with 
many rooms, but not opulent. There were also phones in about 
every room, including one that could float in the pool! After visiting 
the ranch, we were pretty pooped, so we drove back to Austin and 
had dinner at Le Madeline, right by our hotel (which on the inside 
looked almost exactly like the one we used to eat at). We even got 
out traditional sachertortes, which were delicious. After that, we 
headed back to be hotel to rest a while, and Kent and I swam in the 
pool and used the hot tub. So, good day overall, but rather tiring. 

JOHNSON CITY, TX, UNITED STATES • 85° SUNNY 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016 AT 8:47 PM 

Good day. We woke up early to beat the heat and had our second 
Kirby Lane breakfast. (This time we opted for many more cinnamon 
swirls on our pancakes. We then headed to Zilker park where we 
took a hike down to a new pedestrian bridge they've built over the 
river. After walking back up to where we were parked, we took 
kayaks back down the river. Kent and I went under the pedestrian 
bridge and near the Bat Bridge that we'd be seeing later that night. 
It was actually quite pleasant on the water, but in retrospect we 
probably should have taken canoes instead of kayaks, since all our 
pants were pretty soaked by the drippage from our paddles by the 
end. We then walked up to the botanical gardens, which had some 
scraggly rose bushes, a nice bamboo stand and koi pond with a very 
long artificial stream, and a butterfly garden. It was also interspersed 
with random landmarks from Austin's history that seem to have been 
put there willy-nilly, like old lampposts and foot bridges. After 
visiting the gardens, we walked over to some food trucks only to 
discover that they didn't really have anything we were craving, so we 
had a good Tex Mex lunch at the adjacent Chuy's. (We did end up 
picking up some cupcakes from one of the trucks.) We wanted to 
stay out of the heat, so after lunch we returned to the hotel and I 
went swimming with Kent. We even played our old favorite game 
“silent Marco Polo”, which involves one person losing their eyes and 
trying to find the other in the pool by listening to their movements. I 
also finished reading Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, the new J.K. 
Rowling play set in the Harry Potter universe. It was good, but, as a 
play, lacked the detail of the books, and ran kind of fast. I wouldn't 
consider it part of the main cannon. We then headed off for dinner 
at the Radisson in the city (with deconstructed s'mores for dessert) 
before going on the Bat Cruise. We were on the river a little over an 
hour, as the cruise started at 7:00 but the bats really didn't come out 
in force until 8:15 or so. It was hard to really see them well, but if you 
got behind the light just right, you could see their ghostly figures 
pouring our from under the bridge. (Apparently around 1.5 million of 
them live under there!) The tour guide was both knowledgeable and 
amusing, so it was a fun little boat ride. We topped of the night with 
a round at Peter Pan Minigolf, a course filled with whimsical (and 
kind of jank) painted animals. I ended up in second after the padre. 
While driving today, there was a fair amount of navigation 
freakification, especially on the way back from minigolf. We survived 
though. 
Knowledge of Christ leads to repentance. 

AUSTIN, TX, UNITED STATES • 83° CLEAR 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 AT 9:54 PM 

Good day today. We started off by visiting Inner Space Cavern near 
Georgetown, where we'd gone as kids. We took the “Adventure” 
Tour instead of the normal one we used to take. We each got 
flashlights and went along a different route from the regular tour, 
seeing lots of stalactites, stalagmites, bacon (curtains), halectites, 
crevices, and even some small bats! The guide also showed us how 
some of the Rock was luminous under UV light. After the tour, we 
went to Gattiland, which still has the same yummy cheese and 
cinnamon sticks. We played some of their arcade games, but 
decided that there was nothing we wanted to buy with their tickets. 
We then headed to the Texas Memorial Natural History museum, 
which had the obligatory dinosaur bones, as well as giant sloth and 
armadillo fossils, and stuffed modern Texas animals. Kent and Madre 
had wanted to see “Sully”, the new movie about the pilot who 
landed his damaged flight on the Hudson with all 155 passengers 
surviving. It was a well-done movie, although I personally thought it 
dragged on a bit. After that, we had dinner at Luby's, for old time's 
sake, which was greasy but good. In the evening, we headed over to 
a panic room, where you're out in a room with a lot of locks and 
puzzles and have to find your way out. Our theme was “Museum 
Heist”, so we had to recover this expensive artifact and then get out 
of the locked door in an hour. We succeeded with five minutes to 
spare! It was quite gratifying to solve a puzzle and unlock a lock 
(there were around 17), and I think everyone enjoyed themselves. 
We must have done well, since there's only a 36% success rate. We 
topped off the night with a family billiards tournament. I played 
against Madre and won, played against Padre, who'd beat Kentre, 
and de facto won because he knocked the 8-ball in on the break. But 
then I played against Kentre and (narrowly) lost, so I'm not sure that 
we determined anything. We then started packing to leave 
tomorrow. It's been a really fun trip, and nice to see our old haunts, 
the things that have changed, and the things that have stayed the 
same. I'll be sad to go (and a little freaked out about the start of 
school, but I'll get over it). Buenas noches. 
Learned that God can command us to do things even when they 
don't turn out as we plan, so we can learn. 

AUSTIN, TX, UNITED STATES • 81° CLEAR 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016 AT 12:01 PM 

Good day today. Woke up and took out last breakfast in the Hotel 
Granduca, then finished packing and departed for the airport. Kent 
and I had a nice lunch at Schlotsky's and dessert at Amy's ice cream 
to top off our culinary tour of Austin. We then departed for our 
flight, on which I mostly read, took an Uber back to campus, and had 
dinner. I unpacked, did laundry, and took care of business, preparing 
for the fm start of the school year. I also started playing a point-and-
click game called “The Silent Age”, which involves time travel and 
extinction-level events. 
In scripture study, I learned that it would be rank hypocrisy to turn 
away from God after being blessed so much by Him. I also forgot to 
ask Dad for a Father's blessing. Maybe Peter can give me one. 

30.2023° N, 97.6702° W 

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2016 AT 10:46 PM 

Good day today. Woke up early because I'm still on centra time. 
Went out for a run. Took care of errands for getting ready for school, 
like setting alarms, calendars, looking at course plans, getting 
notebooks, etc. also updated my LinkedIn and resume, and opened 
a Roth IRA with Fidelity. I tried to take care of as much business as 
possible so it won't bother me in my first weeks back. I also read 
some of the research abstracts that Patrick sent me. Played some 
games, read in TIME. Felt a bit restless, since I can't really start 
anything big with school around the corner. I'm afraid to even 
download a new book, as I want to work very hard in my first few 
weeks to set up good habits. 
In scripture study, I learned that, I should info be like Zeezrom, 
knowing better but do by wrong anyway because I desire worldly 
rewards more. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2016 AT 9:35 AM 

This week was mediocre in terms of prayer and scripture study. I did 
mostly get it in, but it was often curtailed and not too meaningful, 
since I was on a trip, and my normal schedule was disrupted. I did 
get to spend a lot of time with my family, for which I'm really 
grateful. We were able to have a lot of fun experiences together and 
relive old memories. It was a really great trip. In general, my 
thoughts were clean, although I want to strive to be even better in 
that regard. I think that will be easier as I become immersed in my 
classes. I'm excited and a bit anxious for the beginning of the school 
year and sad to see the summer end. But, I'm sure that I'll have lots 
of great opportunities this coming year. I just want to make sure that 
I'm spiritually attuned to receive them. To that end, I'll be focusing 
my time today on setting goals for the new academic year (stored on 
my laptop), which I hope to review frequently, maybe even every 
week. I also want to ask Peter for a blessing, as I feel bad that I 
forgot to ask my dad for one. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2016 AT 9:59 PM 

Good fast Sunday today. (It's early because general conference is 
next week. It's weird that's the first weekend of the school year.) In 
the morning, I worked on setting goals for the new academic year, 
using Mom's “Five Questions that Will Change Your (Organizational) 
Life” as a primer. Fast and testimony meeting was good. I was able 
to briefly meet some of the new freshmen (three boys and three girls 
were at church). The second hour lesson by Conrad was on the 
Gadianton robbers and secrecy, and how when we are tempted to 
be secret in our own lives, we should ask “Why do I want to hide 
this?” as a sort of barometer for whether we're undertaking to 
“cover our sins” and “gratify our pride”. After church, I asked Peter 
and Andrew to give me a blessing before the start of school, which 
reassured me somewhat, in the uncertainty that always comes with a 
new school year. (The blessing did talk a lot about trials though, 
which has me a bit concerned.) We then had dinner with Connor and 
Kent, which was fun. It was weird to be sitting there together and not 
have any homework to do, so we lingered. After that, I spent quite 
some time working on my Evernote describing our glorious vacation 
in Austin. That really was a nice way to top off the summer. It's hard 
to believe that school's starting tomorrow. Well, it had to start some 
time. I'm sure I'll be in the swing of things in no time. I always follow 
this cycle of being anxious before the start of school and sad to see 
the summer go, yet near the end, I'm not quite ready to see it end. I 
guess I'm just not a fan of change. I'm sure it will be a great year 
with lots of learning experiences of different kinds, though. 
In scripture study, I pondered what I must do to feel the “song of 
redeeming love” now in my life. (I actually want to reread all of Alma 
5, since I only listened to it while running while in Austin). I think I'd 
doing the actions that come with those feelings (such as repentance 
and service) that can actually foster them. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 73° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 AT 10:27 PM 

Good day today. First day of classes. All one of them. In the 
morning, I read another study for my research assistant position. 
After lunch, I went to institute with Bro. Rasmussen, who's the same 
as always. I did a bit of reading for 103 before actually going to the 
class. Keith Schwartz is teaching it, he's very high-energy and 
engaging (and a fast talker), which is good for a class like this. The 
course seems interesting, but a very different kind of proof-based 
math than what I'm used to. If it's anything like Math 51, then I can 
just brute force it by doing lots and lots and lots of practice 
problems until I get the hang of it. At least the readings are 
intelligible, unlike Math 51. In the evening, I went to FroSoCo's 
debate watching party. Hillary was composed and on point. Donald 
Trump was a blustering baby bragging about his wealth in one 
breath and spitting out falsehoods the next. (It was crazy, some of 
the things Hillary said about Trump I thought, “Really? That sounds 
far-fetched.” but then I looked it up online and the facts checked 
out. Not that Trump supporters care who's telling the truth, Padre 
pointed out.) After the debate, I went rock climbing with the LDSSA 
for Family Home Evening. It was fun, and nice to catch up with 
people (although now my fingers are protesting). I enjoy rock 
climbing and should do it more often. I'd need a belaying buddy 
though. Finished up the night doing some more 103 reading. 
In scripture study, I learned that the captivity of my fathers could 
include my own times of spiritual captivity. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 73° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016 AT 11:13 PM 

Good day today. Had my first PWR 2 class, on the rhetoric of 
scientific controversy. PWR is always interesting because you get a 
much more random (and presumably representative) sample of your 
Stanford class. The topic was my first choice, though, so I'm looking 
forward to it. After that I had lunch and then attended the beginning 
of a five hour Poldrack Lab meeting. It was me, Russ, and about 14 
post-docs and masters students. Can you say “awkward”? The 
content was interesting though, and l escaped to 147 before 
meeting stupor set in. 147 seems like a fine class, the teacher spent 
some time in NYC and reminds me a bit of a stereotypical New 
Yorker. Ironically, the class website, while pretty, contains almost no 
useful information (no lecture slides or readings), making it difficult 
to, you know, do the readings they assigned us. Hopefully that gets 
fixed soon. In the evening, I did HW, attended a cupcake social to 
meet other non-freshmen in FroSoCo, and then Kent came over and 
we ranked our 147 sections and got Thanksgiving flights settled. 
In scripture study, I learned that Mary and Joseph were impressively 
obedient to visions telling them to pack their lives up and move. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016 AT 8:34 AM 

Good day today. Finished up some readings for 147 in the morning. 
I also met with Arik, my Academic Advising Director, to check in and 
talk about making long-term plans. He thinks that I'm in good shape 
with my current classes and trajectory, and my goal is to declare in 
the Spring after settling in a little more on my major and learning 
about advisors. But it's good to hear from someone else bag things 
are on track there. Shared a spiritual thought at institute. A new LDS 
freshman also showed up there, Kea'a, who apparently lives in 
FroSoCo on S2. So there are at least 3 Mormons in FSC this year, 
which is cool. (I also covertly got her on the list for rollouts tomorrow 
morning, so hopefully she's up for that!) We discussed proofs in 103, 
and I did one or two practice problems with them, to discover that I 
need to do a lot more practice problems. I also continued to add to 
my Swift Breakout, and now blocks properly disappear when hit by 
the ball. I still haven't gotten psets yet, so I even had a bit of time to 
start a new Hugh Howey book, “Beacon 23” which rather reminds 
me of a sci-fi version of “Slaughterhouse Five.” I also sat in on an 
hour long hall meeting that had basically no relevant information for 
me. Así es. 
In scripture study, I learned that engaging in empty pursuits leaves 
me feeling empty l, as the man who dreamers and safety but awakes 
and is famished. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016 AT 11:13 PM 

Good day today. Started the day early with rollouts, which was fun. 
We rolled out Kea'a and Maddie, then headed over to the Daines's 
house for crepes. Kea'a said afterward that she really enjoyed it, so 
I'm glad I got her on the list last minute. Had PWR in the morning 
and did mini intros, which was fun. I finally got to go to Brother 
Hunt's institute class, which delivered, as always. The environment is 
just so more open and inquisitive than Brother Rasmussen's, who 
feels dogmatic. After institute, we talked about needfinding in 147. I 
did some homework and read more of “Beacon 23.” Tonight, there 
was a “Polaroid Party” in FroSoCo in which we got our pictures 
taken with an old Polaroid camera. I chatted with a fair number of 
people. I also worked on Swift Breakout, which felt like one step 
forward, two steps back. But I made net progress. 
In scripture study/ institute, I learned about different first vision 
accounts. I like that in some, Jospeh emphasized that He was going 
to God to find forgiveness, rather than engaging in a dry intellectual 
debate about which church was correct. I can relate to the need for 
forgiveness. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

October 2016 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2016 AT 11:21 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Went to Bro Johnson's house to watch 
conference with the LDSSA and have brunch. I generally liked these 
sessions better than yesterday. There were good talks on repentance 
and finding joy in the gospel. After getting back, I Skype my family, 
went to a SoFo planning meeting over dinner, went to our first HCI 
project group meeting with Kent, wrote my Evernote, and emailed a 
contact Erica gave me about doing an interview this week for 
needfinding. Kent also suggested using LaTex for my 103 Psets, so I 
poked around in there. 
In scripture study, I learned that repentance is primarily just a choice 
to be more converted. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016 AT 11:10 PM 

Good day today. Worked on writing proofs in the morning. Went to 
institute. Sadly, Keith wasn't at 103, but his head TA did a good job. 
This evening, I had dinner with Lizzie, Amanda, and Brickelle, which 
was fun. I also worked on Breakout but ran into some frustrating 
blocks trying to figure out where to trigger an alert and embed my 
game in a tab bar controller. Sigh 
Was veeeery tired during scripture study, by learned that even the 
three witnesses obtained their view by faith, just as we must. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016 AT 11:12 PM 

Good day today. Busy. In PWR in the morning, we talked about 
selecting our topics. I'm leaning toward doing something related to 
global warming, but I don't want it to be derivative. After class, I 
biked past the regular career fair, which I hadn't been planning on 
attending, but I asked Kent, and he said that it would be a good 
idea. So, after lunch I decided to dress up, print my resume, and 
drop in. I talked to a few different employers, and it was a good 
warm-up for the computer career fair for tomorrow. After that, I had 
HCI and we discussed generating ideas and creating point of views 
off your needfinding interviews. (I have two set up tomorrow.) After 
that, I rushed to a lab meeting and chatted with Patrick about 
scheduling work time. I then rushed over to a SAY meeting. 
Afterwards, I did a bit of homework while watching the vice 
presidential debate. Kaine came off as a pretty aggressive attack 
dog. It was rancorous, but not clear who “won.” Pence articulated 
Trump's policy much more clearly, but you can only polish poo so 
much. I also went down the global warming rabbit hole in doing 
preliminary topic searching. And went into R and graphed January 
temperatures vs. public belief in man-mad global warming over the 
past 15 years. The two spikes correlated with a year lag. 
In scripture study, I learned that patterned revelation involves both 
repetition and seeking the new, like Joseph's visions with Moroni. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016 AT 9:55 AM 

Another busy day today. In the morning, I went to interview Janine, a 
journalist now lecturing at Stanford, for needfinding for 147. (I 
actually originally went up an hour early because I got confused by 
the time, but thankfully no one was at her office, so awkwardness 
was avoided.) She was very articulate and had some interesting 
points about people being in media silos. She also said, “We live in 
a time where the facts don't seem to matter.” which is rather 
disturbing coming from a journalist. After that, I headed over to the 
computer career fair and waited in a ginormous line to be get 
packed like a sardine in a tent full of people scrambling for jobs. I 
was able to drop my resume a lot of places and get swag, which is 
about all I could expect. I should really do some technical interview 
prep (in my copious spare time), just so I can dust the cobwebs out. 
After the fair, I grabbed lunch at Olives, then went ton103, where we 
discussed First-Order Logic. After that, I interviewed Dan Nguyen, a 
“data journalist,” for 147. He started talking even before I sat down 
and hardly stopped to an hour his stories did end up with interesting 
points, but they were kind of rambly. I was also worried that my face 
would be scorched from the sun, but I think I escaped solar death. 
After the interview, I went to office hours and unsuccessfully waited 
for an hour to get my questions answered. In the evening, we had a 
147 project meeting and discussed how to tie everything we'd 
learned in interviews together. 
In scripture study, I learned that ordinances should prompt us to self-
reflection before we engage in them, so they were as a reminder to 
repent and monitor our paths. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY SUNNY 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016 AT 11:13 PM 

Good day today. Had PWR, went to 103 office hours, had a good 
discussion in institute about Book of Mormon translation. (Bro Hunt 
is the best!) Discovered the travesty of justice that Subway no longer 
accepts meal plan dollars. Learned about ideation in 147. Did 
homework, met with Scotty to go over the 103 pset. He's very 
thorough. Grateful for that. Did some coding practice. After going to 
dinner, I biked back to MemAud to see the first of the Election 2016 
panels, which had David Plouffe among its speakers. They talked 
about Trump and Clinton's strategies, and Plouffe called the election 
for Clinton (actually, all the panelists did). Plouffe in particular was 
very articulated, and at one point turned on the “politician voice” in 
trying out a line he thought that Hillary should use. 
In institute, we discussed why Joseph needed the plates in the first 
place: (1) they provide physical evidence, (2) they test his faith, (3) 
they make the story make more sense than “I translated a book in 
my mind.” Erica also brought up a really good point comparing the 
seed stone to the Brother of Jared's stones. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° MOSTLY SUNNY 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016 AT 10:20 PM 

Good day today. Had studio in the morning for 147 and Kev gave a 
good presentation on our needfinding. We also met in the afternoon 
about the next assignment, which seems quite extensive. Also went 
to Friday Forum, where we asked questions of the frosh and vice 
versa. It was nice not to have to worry about preparing the food, etc. 
In 103, we learned more about first-order logic, translating it, and 
negating it. I started work on the new PSet in the evening. I also 
went to see the VoicePlay concert with Kent. They're a five person all 
male a capella group that specializes in instrumental sounds and 
skits. I thought they were fun, a little cruise-shippy with their campy 
humor, but enjoyable. Kent was mortified and wanted “dark 
chocolate.” 
In scripture study, I learned that Mary Whitmer apparently had a 
vision of the angel Moroni in response to being faithful in supporting 
Joseph et al in the process of translation. I think that often revelation 
comes as we diligently work, instead of just sitting there waiting for 
it. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2016 AT 11:09 PM 

Good day today. Didn't do a ton. I worked on my 103 PSet most of 
the day. I did a bit of Python practice. I did some errands and played 
The Talks Principle, looking for those elusive gold stars. (So, basically 
all day was spent solving puzzles of one form or another.) I'm 
grateful that I wasn't swamped and was able to make some good 
progress. 
In scripture study, I learned that the Nephites didn't have the Booke 
of Mormon in its current form. It really is written for us. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2016 AT 10:12 AM 

Overall this was a good week. I was able to do fun things with 
friends, like dinner with Brickelle, Amanda, and Lizzie on Monday, 
watching the VP debate on Tuesday, and seeing the VoicePlay 
concert with Kent on Friday. I also was productive on the work front, 
going to both career fairs, and starting a bit of technical interview 
prep, which I should do much, much more of. I got all of my 
homework done and I feel that I put a good effort into it. I did okay 
on prayer and scripture study. I did them, but I could do a better job 
at recording insights from scripture study, and I should pray aloud 
more so I can keep my train of thought focused. I didn't go to 
institute two days out of the week because of the career fair, but I 
shouldn't have that problem this week. I was able to play a bit of 
computer games on Saturday, which I think was sufficient without 
being too much. I won't play during the week this week (at least until 
Friday), as there's plenty to do. I kept my thoughts clean this week; I 
was only really tempted on Saturday when it was the end of the 
week and I didn't have as much to do, so I should be sure to stay 
busy. I think that's the key. I also have a bunch of little errands to do, 
like IRA investments, Mom's B-Day gift, and my ballot request, so I 
should make sure that those are squared away. I'm looking forward 
to seeing Mom and Aunt Jennifer this week! Anyway, as one last 
thing, I should reach out to people in my hall, maybe come by and 
chat in the evening, get to know them better. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2016 AT 12:46 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Did normal reflection and study in the 
morning, and had brunch with Kea'a, her roommate Sophie, and two 
other frosh, James and Jerry. I figured that I needed to do more to 
talk to people, so it was nice to chat with them. Before church, Jason 
and I home taught Jared, and we talked about making the Sabbath a 
delight, which I think we all find difficult. Church was award 
Conference today (which means we didn't have Sunday School 
aww…) but we did have good speakers and musical numbers in 
sacrament meeting, and a good Q&A with President Wilson in 
Elder's Quorum (with the exception of one question about dating 
that compared women to a herd of deer). There was a linger longer 
after church, which was tasty (grateful for free food, as always), then I 
went to Skype with my family. Immediately afterwards, I watched the 
second presidential debate. I still think Hillary won, although Trump 
was a little more in control than in the first debate, he still said some 
really terrible things, like responding to a questions about 
Islamophobia by talking about how the neighbors saw the San 
Bernadino shooters preparing and did nothing (a false claim) and 
criticizing Obama and Hillary for not using calling terrorists “radical 
Islamic terrorists.” Anyway, more thoughts in the Evernote. After the 
debate, I looked over my 103 homework and tried to think about the 
final problem, and did some more Python intro stuff to get the 
syntax down. 
In scripture study, I learned that “judge ye” is a key word in 
evaluating the Book of Mormon. Whatever our evaluation, we are 
responsible for it and its consequences. 

351 OLMSTED RD, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016 AT 12:12 PM 

Good day today. Busy. In the morning, I forgot what I did, it I think it 
involved preparing for my conference with Meg on my research 
topic, which I had after institute today. Meg was supportive of my 
topic choice and had good ideas to help me narrow my scope, find 
sources, and little ok at interesting trends. After that, I did some 
prep for an interview call with Evan Stuempfig, my friend from high 
school, talking about his consumption of the media for my 147 
project. After I resolved the technical difficulties with Kent (which I 
claim were all on his end) the actual call worked fine with Evan, 
although it was fairly short because he actually answered the 
questions directly, unlike some interview candidates. In the evening, 
we met as a 147 group and unpacked the additional interview data, 
made another point of view and generated how might we's, then 
took our best how might we's and brainstormed solutions to address 
them, then picked some of the top solutions from our brainstorm. It 
was a lot of work, and took about two hours, but we had several 
unique and interesting solutions when we finished. Now we just 
need to develop, make, and test experience prototypes, write a 
report and develop a presentation in the next few days. I also had 
103 today, in which we talked about reflexive, symmetric, and 
transitive statements. Stayed up late into the night doing research 
for PWR proposal. 
In scripture study, I did a Christlike attribute activity and learned that 
I need to pray for charity… and have it. 

418 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 66° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016 AT 10:27 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, went to PWR, where there was a 
fun presentation about oral presentations by an oral communications 
tutor. After that, in institute we discussed Book of Mormon 
controversies and its role as the “keystone of our religion.” I like that 
Brother Hunt really took time to address and explore the 
controversies and the role, and shortcomings, of historicity in 
examining faith. After that, went to 147 where we talked about 
experience prototypes and 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016 AT 1:22 AM 

Good day. Busy. did PWR proposal, more 103 homework, 147 
testing and project meeting, lunch forum with Bro Mason, dinner 
with Kent at HAM. The 147 testing took quite some time, as Kent 
and I did another Turing Test having liberals adopt a conservative 
persona in an online chat, and answering questions in a sort of 
“anonymous Quora.” In scripture study, I read more about Alma and 
Amulek preaching, and was intrigued by how the people adopted 
Zeezrom's arguments even after he became guilty and tried to refute 
them. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016 AT 8:32 PM 

Good day today. Had PWR in the morning, where we peer reviewed 
each other's research proposal drafts. After lunch at Olives, I headed 
to institute, where we discussed the restoration of the priesthood 
and a little about women and the priesthood. After that, we had HCI 
and watched a bunch of examples of “concept videos”, which we 
need to make for our project. As our entire team consists of 
engineers, I am rather skeptical of this task. I was also able to finish 
up my 103 PSet without resorting to waiting for hours at office hours. 
After class, Kent and I drove to Millbrae and then took the BART to 
San Francisco, where we met Aunt Jennifer for dinner at “La Fusion”, 
a Latin-themed restaurant. The food was delicious, and we discussed 
a little about Trump, our lives, and much gossip. The dinner was fun, 
but took a while, and travel was long, so we got back at 
In scripture study, I reviewed my goals and decided that I should 
probably leave my shell to fulfill my SoFo duties and go on dates. 

ALBERT M TEGLIA BLVD, DALY CITY, CA, UNITED STATES 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016 AT 10:18 AM 

Good day today. Had studio in the morning and we did our 
experience prototype presentations, which went well. After that, 
Kent and I grabbed lunch at Arrillaga, and sat on the covered terrace 
looking out at the rain and discussing our project. (It rained most of 
the day yesterday.) I then ran to lab for a meeting with Patrick, where 
we read a paper he's supposed to review. I was like “I am totally 
unqualified to review this paper!” but luckily, it was very good, so 
there weren't too many criticisms to make of it. I then headed down 
to 103 where we discussed functions in all their glory, which brought 
back hazy memories from Math 51 of “one-to-one” and “onto.” 
After that, I started on the 103 problem set, did some PWR research, 
and in the evening, I watched “Psycho” with the LDSSA, which was 
deeeeeeeeeeeply disturbing. It was a well-made movie though. 
After that, I played a bit of the Talos Principle and finally got a Gold 
Star that I'd probably worked for two hours or more to nab. 
In scripture study, I found it interesting that Zeezrom was able to 
develop faith in the power of Christ to heal, even apparently without 
anyone teaching him. So, our most difficult trials, like Zeezrom's 
wrestle with his sins, can be our greatest teachers. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 70° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2016 AT 10:30 AM 

Good day today. Immediately after I woke up and showered, I 
headed down to Tresidder for a 147 project meeting where we 
brainstormed video ideas and made a storyboard for them. It took 
two hours, but it was reasonably productive. After that, Kent and I 
grabbed a quick brunch at Wilbur before rushing off to the first SAY 
“meeting.” I put meeting in quotes because it was only us and 
Dana, EEEK TO THE FREAK SAY IS GOING TO DIE! Well, she did 
say that some people had emailed her asking for a makeup session, 
so hopefully we have a few new people. After that, I headed back 
and worked on homework most of the afternoon, doing 103, 
finding/making video resources, and writing a draft of my PWR 
research proposal script. I also got an email asking me to meet with 
Bishop Welch, so I biked down to church in the afternoon and he 
extended a calling for me to be on the LDSSA fellowshipping 
committee, which I accepted (although I'm not sure what exactly it 
entails). In the evening, I played computer games a bit, but couldn't 
find anything really fun. 
In scripture study, I learned to beware of blind faith in institutions. 
They are more fragile than we realize. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2016 AT 10:38 AM 

This week went okay. I did my prayer and scripture study but could 
have focused more and taken more notes. I also should have written 
in my journal more consistently. It was fun to have dinner with Aunt 
Jennifer, and I'm looking forward to spending time with Mom today 
and tomorrow. I had a bit of trouble with clean thoughts, partially 
because of unclean pictures on news sites where I was doing 
research, so I should make sure to avoid looking at those. I'm 
excited for my new calling and will definitely talk to John about what 
it entails. My first 103 midterm is next week, so I think I'll probably 
refrain from computer games next weekend so I can study for it 
better. I thought I played just a little more than I should have this 
week, especially considering I couldn't find anything that fun. I could 
also have done a better job of getting to be early, and not playing or 
reading the news late into the night. I should also think about going 
on a date soon. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° LIGHT RAIN 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016 AT 12:35 AM 

Good day today. Regular morning, did a bit of 103 and a 
HackerRank challenge. Went to church, with three very 
eeeenteresting and rambly talks by the missionaries and one good 
one by the stake music coordinator. After church, Kent picked me up 
and we drove down to Madera, a swanky restaurant, where we met 
Mom for dinner (she's flown in for a few days). After that, we 
attended a Hearth meeting, with the principal speaker being the first 
openly gay activist convert to the church since the November 
policies. He's a theology student and was amazingly knowledgeable 
about church history. He presented a pragmatic argument about 
how LGBTQ advocacy could be built on the core values of the 
church. I really liked his remarks (see my Evernote for more detail). 
Bishop Welch, ever one to pop up where you least except him, also 
made an appearance. After driving back to FroSoCo with Madre, I 
worked on my research proposal script for PWR. 
In scripture study I learned that being healed involves taking Jesus 
hand, and it involves walking. It's active, not passive. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° LIGHT RAIN 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016 AT 1:03 AM 

Good day. Had both lunch and dinner with Madre. Did 103 and 
began practice for the midterm next Monday. 
In scripture study, learned that I should share the gospel as freely as I 
have received it. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016 AT 12:56 AM 

Good day. Filming. Practice 103 went well. Practice research 
proposal talk went well. Asearme instiute with Bro Hunt. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016 AT 12:37 AM 

Good day today. Had my first real time in the lab, where I began to 
get MRI certified and looked with Patrick at this vomitose heat map 
of covariances of 200 test statistics on their most recent behavioral 
data set for their ontology of self regulation. It was interesting 
though. In 103, we discussed graphs. Yay graphs! After that, I 
watched the final presidential debate, which was a true slugfest. 
Trump was decently coherent for the first ten minutes and then it 
descended into trading punches, but I think the fact that he didn't 
sexually abuse any women onstage meant that he exceeded 
expectations (albeit he did verbally abuse one woman on stage very 
much). In the evening, our 147 group worked on our concept video 
for three hours, and I think we got it down to something quite good. 
We were able to save just as we were kicked out due to the techs lab 
closing at midnight. 

In scripture study, I was very tired, but I learned that living the gospel 
isn't about masochistic sacrifice, but growth and fulfilling needs, 
which sometimes requires us being uncomfortable. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016 AT 1:08 AM 

Good day today. Did my research proposal presentation in PWR, 
which went well. Enjoyed a burrito and horchata for lunch at Stern. 
We polished up our video in 147, then Kentre and I complained 
about the arbitrary nature of the grading. I worked on CS practice 
and PWR research, and went over the PSet with Scotty. I also played 
some of Sins of a Solar Empire, my old favorite. It's still quite fun. I 
think I had the decisive battles of the game in this session (the ones 
you don't know if you'll win which determine whether or not you 
have impetus to press the attack). My turtle-like expansion seems to 
have been effective. 
In scripture study, I wondered what the deal is with “bad fruit comes 
only from bad trees”, since I feel that's not true with humans. I guess 
you could say, “If you do good things, then you must not be all 
bad.” 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2016 AT 12:26 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, went to the LDS Stanford alumni 
reunion at the church because Erica had roped me into singing 
“Bound for the Promised Land.” It went well though, and I got free 
food out of it, so what more can you ask for? I spent the rest of the 
day doing homework and playing some of “The Witness.” I really 
like the way it trains you on concepts then has you apply them 
(although I occasionally run into puzzles based on concepts I haven't 
found the “training puzzles” for yet.) I also had some trouble 
keeping my thoughts clean, which will definitely be a focus for me. I 
did well on prayer today, though, and I read about Ammon teaching 
King Lamoni. I should be willing to give away all my sins and worldly 
possessions to know Christ. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2016 AT 11:17 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Had a 147 project meeting on design ideas, 
figured out our answer review process, and started to sketch UIs. 
After that, I went to church for a practice for “Bound for the 
Promised Land” since we sang it in church today, which went well. In 
the third hour, I got set apart for my calling. After church, I had 
dinner with Kent, which was fun. I prepped for the 103 midterm and 
did a little bit of work on my PWR research proposal as well. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016 AT 11:36 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, I went to see Bishop Welch to 
discuss how I can do better at keeping my thoughts clean and not 
dwell on sexual fantasies. He gave some good advice about 
monitoring my environment, sustaining the pillars of spiritual, social, 
physical, and professional health, and not allowing a mistake to 
make me give up, but repenting and moving on. It's definitely advice 
that I'll need to meditate on and figure out how specifically to act on 
it. It was nice to be able to talk with him about it, as keeps my my 
thoughts clean is key to avoiding unchaste action. Both he and I 
were crying by the end of our conversation, and he gave me a 
blessing, which I appreciated. The next event I had after that was 
institute, and I must have been feeling the Spirit a lot, because I was 
able to gain new insights, such as “Jesus uses parables because 
whenever we apply gospel principles, we need to view our own lives 
as parables to recognize the application.” After that, I did some 
more studying and took the CS 103 midterm. It went well. I was able 
to answer every question and had really solid answers for the first 
three of four. On the last one, I had a false start, the wrote a different 
answer that I believe is correct, but I didn't have time to really 
thoroughly reflect on. We'll see how it goes. After that, I did some 
more homework, and submitted my PWR research proposal. I then 
dropped off one of the binders I'm supposed to distribute as 
fellowshipping committee member to JoMo, a freshman who hasn't 
come to church, but at least seemed willing to talk. I then headed to 
FHE, where we did a speed dating/ get to know you activity, which 
reminds me that I should do real dating. Nicolas wasn't at Habla, 
which was sad but gave me more time to chip away at all my work. 
In scripture study, I prepared for my devotional and poderes how 
God is often a “fourth watch” God, waiting to intervene until after 
we have struggled. I recounted the story of me searching for my 
internship (I'm pretty sure the time from first contacting Juntos to 
getting my offer was longer than my actual internship.) and how God 
intervened after I fasted for guidance about what to do over the 
summer when two days later I received an offer from Juntos. I even 
felt a bit of that fourth watch help today when I was stuck on the last 
midterm question but got guidance for how to solve it. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016 AT 11:40 PM 

Good day today. In the morning went to PWR and we watched 
example RBA presentations, including one on banning end-to-end 
encryption. (I disagree with him on the feasibility of the proposal, but 
his presentation was good.) In institute we talked about the 
organization of the church and what it means to be the “only true 
and living church upon the face of the whole earth,” a phrase that 
I've always been a little uncomfortable parsing. Brother Hunt had 
some good thoughts about this. First, “true” has multiple meanings. 
Not simply “based in fact” but also “loyal or adhering to.” The 
church could be seen as true in collectively being loyal or adhering 
to a covenant relationship with God. It could be seen as truly 
representing the same organization as the primitive church 
established by Christ. Brother Hunt also made a metaphor to 
Aragorn and the Stewards from the Lord of the Rings, which was 
awesome. After institute, I had 147, where we just watched project 
videos, then we had a feedback session where we smite the arbitrary 
grading system! (We later discovered that Raghav had actually failed 
to send the email asking for feedback on our storyboards, which 
changes things somewhat, but the fact that the grading system is 
arbitrary remains unchanged. We just need to have better TA 
communication so we can game the arbitrary system. After a lab 
meeting, I went back to the tech lounge in Lathrop and finished my 
103 PSet (Yay!) before embarking on an epically long project 
meeting for 147 where we storyboards our app design, prototyped 
them on paper, then biked over to the church where we tested the 
prototypes on several people. I started at 5:00 and we finished 
around 9:00. After that, Kent and I went to TAP to indulge in a late 
dinner, and drown poor Kent's sorrows about not advancing in 
Google and generally not having a good day. At least the brownie 
was good. After that I worked on my PWR thick description of 
Climategate. Also, today Allison Young, a friend from high school, 
randomly messaged me and told me that, in her work as a student 
teacher, she's going to use a poem I wrote in AP Comp (five years 
ago) to teach high school students about synonyms. How interesting 
how that's come full circle. 
I already wrote a lot about Brother Hunt's class. In scripture study I 
wondered why the apostasy lasted so long. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016 AT 11:08 PM 

Good day today. I can do anything with my own thoughts and I will 
be able to change the to my life and then I will change the to my 
family and cronies. That, my friends, is what happens when I select 
only input from the suggestions. Anyway, this morning I went to PWR 
and we reviewed our thick descriptions, then did “nonlinear 
outlining,” and I made a beautiful tree (in the CS sense). At institute 
we discussed missionary work and watched a church history video on 
the first female missionaries in modern times. In HCI we discussed 
the history of design (i.e. The readings I didn't do because our group 
was working on the project.) We also met with Shubha to try and get 
more feedback and air our grievances. (She told us that our grade 
was higher than average on the last assignment, which seems 
strange because Professor Landay showed the grade averages in 
class for the last assignment and ours was slightly below average. 
Maybe we were just higher than average in her sections…) Anyway, 
after class I worked on the presentation, which I'm giving tomorrow. I 
had dinner with a bunch of LDSSA people who had congregated like 
bees to honey to eat death by chocolate at Ricker. I went over the 
103 PSet with Scotty without incident. 
In scripture study I wondered why missionary work seems to be 
emphasized so much more now and with Christ than in the Old 
Testament. I asked in institute and Brother Hunt noted that the 
Israelites did do a sort of proselytizing by force. Very interesting. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° LIGHT RAIN 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016 AT 11:51 PM 

Good day. Presented for 147, which went well, although people 
thought our interface was cluttered. I think most of this was because 
we were drawing in thick sharpie on cards slightly smaller than 
iPhone screens. Patriarch Finnleyson spoke at FriFo, and had an 
awesome list of sort of important/controversial discussion topics. 
Learned about inductive proofs. Had a super fun time at murder in 
the dark. I mean, super fun. We played three rounds (I was a civilian 
each time, I was not really ever murdered except for one time when 
it was down to three civvies and one murderer and the murderer 
tried to kill us all, but my death was immediately followed by cries of 
“body” that ended the game in our favor. I was also voted off the 
island once.) 
In scripture study, I learned that the man seeking healing for his sone 
didn't just give up when the disciples failed, he “sought that Jesus” 
(Ether 12:41). 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2016 AT 12:18 AM 

Good day today. I briefly awoke right before Peter got rolled out by 
SSI this morning, but since I was already awake and it was 7:00, it 
wasn't too disruptive. I did a lot of work on 103 today, finishing 
problem 6 of 8, although I still need to clean up some reasoning 
here and there. In the afternoon, Peter, Andrew, and I went with 
Erica, our home teachee, and two other ward members, to a Korean 
restaurant. I got Kimchi, which was good, but spicy. Not necessarily 
my favorite food, but it was a good experience. We probably could 
have done some more home teacherly things, but it was nice to 
check in. Andrew, Peter, and I got ice cream at Cold Stone 
afterwards, which hopefully cooled off the fire in my belly. I then did 
more homework and 147 reading, and attempted briefly and 
unsuccessfully to understand our medium-fi prototyping tools. I had 
much more success playing “The Witness”, where I was finally able 
to solve many of the puzzles involving these yellow blocks that you 
had to fit inside your mazes. I'm sure there are some interesting 
algorithmic problems there, as not only must your line encompass a 
certain number of blocks in a certain shape, but it must also be 
continuous, not loop back over itself, and start and end at specified 
points. I also solved lots of stuff with trees and shadows, which was 
easier, and the concluding puzzle was beautiful. For half the puzzles 
you had to have your line avoid the shadows. For the other half, you 
had to have it follow the shadow. In the capstone puzzle, one one 
half of the board you avoided the shadow and on the other half you 
followed it. Besides that, I went to a storytelling by Akshay and 
Shreya where they related the tale of Ramayana (at least, a very 
Americanized version). It was cool to hear something from a very 
different perspective yet which brought out universal human themes 
like love, justice, and heroes. 
In scripture study, I learned that we need to be grateful to not fall off 
the hedonic treadmill. I also read in Matthew that basically, since we 
need trials in life, God gives us agency, which functionally ensures 
that we'll cause trials for ourselves and others. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2016 AT 10:28 AM 

Good day today. Did lab work in the morning where Patrick trained 
me on doing quality control for MRI scans, so I made sure that the 
lines weren't too squiggly or spiky and that the brains looked normal 
on the QC documents that come from each scan. The whole lab had 
Indian food for lunch to celebrate Duvali, which was fun. In 103 we 
started talking about inductive proofs, which was interesting. I met 
Kent at Hamm for dinner, which was Canadian themed but included 

pizza and doughnuts .. 
. I then worked on my PWR thick description 
for a bit before going to our project meeting for 147, where we 
started working on our report. I went to Habla, but sadly Nicolas 
wasn't there, so I had to work with another tutor and tutee. 
In scripture study I wondered why the gentile woman had to be so 
much more persistent than many of the Jews for her son to be 
healed. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° LIGHT RAIN 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2016 AT 10:35 AM 

This week felt good. I was glad that I was able to talk with Bishop 
Welch to get more ideas about how I can keep my thoughts clean. 
This coming week I'll probably devote a scripture study to actionable 
plans related to that goal, like reducing time spent browsing games 
on Steam. I felt like prayer and scripture study went pretty well this 
week. I just have to try to get as much sleep as feasible so I'm not 
too tired during them. I could have done a better job at exercising in 
the morning and not eating junk food. Between dinner at Hamm, 
Murder in the Dark, lunch with Erica and co, and the Duvali thing, I 
went to quite a few activities this week. I could have been more 
outgoing/social in some of them, and I feel like we should have 
done a better job of checking in with Erica spiritually, which I should 
have brought up as we were headed to lunch. I should go on a date 
soon, especially now I don't have a midterm and project 
presentation looming. I'll put some thought into that. Academically, I 
feel like I'm doing well and working hard in my classes. Two things I 
want to improve: (1) I'm neglecting PWR right now since it's not as 
urgent, I need to get on research for that, (2) I need to do technical 
interview prep, at least 15 minutes a day. I did alright as a 
SoFo/Fellowshipper this week. I need to distribute the binders more 
this week, and I need to take at lease one break to chat with people 
in my hall and get to know them better. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° LIGHT RAIN 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016 AT 1:02 AM 

Good Sabbath day today. In the morning, I had brunch with Connor. 
I began looking through my mail-in ballot, which contains many, 
many propositions. I also proved a problem about Nim for 103 that 
I'd been pondering last night. In church we sang hymns for all of 
sacrament meeting, which was great. That was the highlight. Second 
hour was okay, we talked a lot about movies that made us cry, which 
segues into the relationship between emotion and the Spirit. The 
third hour was a unique lesson on Family History. The presenter 
showed clips from Star Wars, Interstellar, and Gladiator to show the 
importance/strength of familial ties. I like that his approach was 
different, but I think one clip would have sufficed. After church, I had 
dinner with the LDSSA at FloMo, and Kent came along, since we had 
our family call afterwards. We then drove down to Lathrop to meet 
with our 147 project team to discuss our medium-fi prototype. We 
were able to do some good redesign sketches, which I are waiting 
on Shubha's approval. I played around a bit with Figma, the design 
tool we're using, after we got back. I think we may need permission 
to use it. Around midnight, Amna and Sophie, two residents of S1, 
came by in search of cookies, and I was able to provide them with 
Oreos. We have a nice conversation centered on food (what else?). 
That's it. Time to sleep. 
In scripture study, I learned that while crying out to Jesus may be 
unpopular, He will hear you. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

November 2016 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016 AT 12:44 AM 

Happy Halloween! Well, technically it's no longer Halloween, but it 
still kind of is. I celebrated Halloween in a lost nerdtastic fashion: 
scanning people in an MRI, designing an app, and teaching English. 
But I'm getting ahead of myself. In the morning, I did errands like 
finishing my ballot, laundry, and sewing a button on my pants. I did 
some readings and responses for my election class in the welt 
afternoon. Our group also got our grades back for our most recent 
147 assignment. The feedback was very frustrating, as it 
contradicted a question that I directly asked in Piazza, and seemed 
to not follow the rubric (We got dinged for not talking enough about 
something we were only supposed to have two slides on, that I 
spent a quarter of the presentation discussing.) Sometimes this class 
just makes me want to give up. Which I won't, because I'm stubborn. 
I think we have grounds for a regrade, but I don't know if that would 
be the most strategic option. We'll see. Anyway, sorry for the rant. I 
helped out in a test MRI scan because I was needed last minute 
because someone else was sick. I also went to Habla and helped 
tutor someone named Maria (what else?) since Nicolas wasn't there. 
In scripture study, I was very tired, but I learned that one form of 
hypocrisy is to promise something you know you can't deliver. We 
need to be honest about the fruit we beat. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016 AT 12:34 AM 

Good day today. Felt tired. PWR was canceled so I did research for 
my paper. In 147, we discovered that the color blue is the root of all 
evil (although the color sensitivity graph that Landay showed 
diverged a lot from the ones I found when I looked it up online). We 
were able to get some clarification on what Shubha meant when she 
defamed our tab bars by taking to Landay though. No lab meeting 
today. Worked on various things but didn't feel terribly productive. 
Learned in scripture study that there are multiple lands of promise. In 
a sense, we are co-creators of our own land of promise with God. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016 AT 12:55 AM 

Good day today. Had lab in the morning and helped Patrick prepare 
a seven minute talk (for two hours, he was rather stressed about it). 
Went to the 103 in the afternoon and learned about 
nondeterministic finite automata, AKA black magic machines. Also 
finally cracked the last PSet problem, which I'd been working on for 
a while. Grateful for that inspiration. Kent and I met with Shubha for 
a second round of feedback on our medium-fi prototype, then spent 
much of the afternoon fleshing it out, including a final group 
meeting in the evening. We've got it mostly done now, although 
people's pages look rather different. Finally, I had Habla tonight and 
worked with Emily to tutor Maria, which was fun. Nicolas promised 
that he'd come on Monday. 
In scripture study, I learned that I become very tired when I don't get 
enough sleep. I also learned that reliability is a component of 
avoiding hypocrisy. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016 AT 1:02 AM 

Good day today. Puttered along in PWR. Finally stood in line to get 
a nerd nation shirt with Brickelle. Went to 147 and learned about 
heuristic evaluation, then engaged in internal group wars over 
formatting. After dinner, FroSoCo announced a Death Star building 
contest. Both Adams and Schiff got Lego Death Star kits, and 
whoever builds it first wins. (What, I don't know.) I participated in 
some building before going off to meet with Scotty to go over 103, 
which went well. I also played a round of XCOM and managed to 
infiltrate an alien facility without anyone dying. Huzzah! 
In scripture study, I learned that we recognize that prophets are 
fallible, but are blessed for receiving their council in faith and 
patience. It especially requires patience if we perhaps do not agree 
with them on certain social issues. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° CLEAR 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2016 AT 1:12 AM 

Good day today. Did 103, PWR, and 147 in various forms today. It 
was Mom's birthday, so we had a Skype call with her to open 
presents. Kentre randomly invites me to see “The 25th Annual 
Putnam County Spelling Bee” with him in SF this evening. I decided 
that I might as well go. Well, that's four hours of my life that I'll never 
get back. The show wasn't bad, but it wasn't great either, or 
particularly deep. Just a bunch of freakers derping around in a very 
low-stakes environment. If it had any takeaway, it was “achievement 
isn't everything” which is kind of shallow. It was also full of non-
sequiturs, including a random anti-Trump speech. Anyway, at least I 
got to spend time with Kent. I also played just a bit of XCOM and 
snatched victory from the jaws of defeat. I played a mission where I 
had 8 turns to disarm a bomb that would destroy vital data. I sent 
my ranger sprinting up on the bomb on the 8th turn, only to aggro 
six enemies (two patrols unluckily converged), including a sectopod, 
a mech, two lancers, a shieldbearer, and an officer. I thought I'd get 
slaughtered, or at least lost one or two troops. However, my 
technician hacked a nearby Advent tower, which gave me control 
over one random unit for two turns, which happened to be the 
sectopod, the most powerful one! I'd also caught some of the 
lancers on overwatch, so after they stunned some of my people, I 
told them down long range. After my ranger and the secotopod 
took down the shield water, my technician successfully hacked and 
shut down the mech. Since the last two enemies were incapacitated, 
I automatically won! It was pretty brilliant (well, mostly lucky). 
Anyway, that's my day. 
In scripture study, I wondered how our search for truth and 
confirmation of counsel given by leaders interacts with the injunction 
to exactly obey that counsel. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2016 AT 10:21 AM 

This week overall went well. I kept my thoughts clean, went to a 
number of different activities, and did well in my classes. I was able 
to spend some fun time with Kent seeing the “Putnam Spelling 
Bee”, although the show itself is wasn't that great. I played a little 
more computer games than I would have liked, although to the a 
ton. I did a little coding practice but would like to do more. I should 
adhere better to my 15 minutes per day goal. Maybe do that before 
playing any games. I would also like to magnify my calling more. 
Today I'm going to work at distributing the rest of the binders I have, 
and I should also talk with Sam about setting up a meeting (and 
make sure that's everyone on the committee). I would also like to go 
on a date soon. So, all of that will require a little bit of planning time, 
which I should invest. Speaking of investments, I'm going to invest 
some of my IRA money tomorrow. Also, I should talk with Peter and 
Andrew about home teaching. With a three some, it's a lot easier to 
have social loafing take place, so we need a plan for who will invite, 
teach, etc. I should review this entry as part of my midweek check-in 
to make sure I've followed up on my goals. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016 AT 1:22 AM 

Good Sabbath. Indexing party zTren happy birthday. Golden PWRsource. BFS coding challenge z 

Learned in scripture study that I should examine my heart to 
preserve its change. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016 AT 12:50 AM 

Good day today. Worked on drafting my PWR essay, which needs 
some work to spark it. Learned about RegEx in 103. Went to a SoFo 
check-in dinner and felt like I needed to to better. I should distribute 
my Oreos. Better that than eat them. We played a game called 
“Werewolf” in FHE, which is like Mafia but not as good and more 
confusing. I also did Habla tutoring. 
In scripture study, I learned that sometimes, we're like the sons of 
Mosiah, who got knocked down for seemingly no good reason but 
got back up and experienced great success. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016 AT 12:25 AM 


The picture says it all. It's hard to believe that this happened. I am 
appalled that the American people would elect someone so unfit for 
office, who denies science, assaults and demeans women, racially 
slurs immigrants, attacks the free trade that has contributed to the 
wealth of our country, and lies blatantly and shamelessly. I am 
ashamed of the American people. Let it be noted here that I did not 
vote for Donald Trump, that I believe he was the wrong choice for 
our country, and that I am deeply troubled by his election. However, 
I'm also a pragmatist, so I accept that he was elected, and now the 
question is, “What are we going to do about it?” First, we need to 
know why. Why did the polls fail to predict his electoral showing (by 
margins of 4-6% in many states!)? Why did he have such a strong 
showing? If there's a section of the country that feels 
disenfranchised, that distrusts political insiders enough to elect 
Trump, where do their feelings come from and how can we expand 
the liberal message to include them? What can we do to ensure that 
key policies like the Paris Agreement are upheld? Would it be 
possible to reform the electoral college so that the fate of the nation 
doesn't depend on a few swing states? There is work to do, and now 
is not the time to lie down, roll over, and die. 
In more mundane news, I worked a lot on my PWR essay today, but 
was totally distracted by the election, so I managed to overhaul my 
outline, but didn't make great progress after that. I also did some 
practice for CS 103 and made my notes sheet, which I sorely needed 
to do. We discussed “What is truth?” in institute, which seems 
particularly pertinent to this Election Day. In the evening, I watched 
the coverage for a while, then left to work on homework. Once it 
became clear that the tide was turning against Clinton, I made my 
peace with a Trump presidency. I also went out an email offering 
oreos to anyone who wanted consolation, and I got a good amount 
of traffic to my room for that. 
In scripture study, I learned that even though our personal offerings 
may be meager or suboptimal, Christ still accepts them. I also 
thought about how much more attention the disciples would have 
paid at Gethsemane had they understood it's significance. It's 
important not to let those key moments in life pass you by. 
So, that's the day. The sun will still rise tomorrow, and pretty soon, I 
won't be thinking about this. In fact, I'm pretty sure that Trump's 
election will have little to no impact on my happiness. However, I 
want my children to know that I took a stand against him in the 
election. Now, it's time to move forward. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016 AT 1:09 AM 

Good day today. The campus was in a malaise today because of the 
election. When I got to lab, Patrick was rehashing it with some other 
people, and generally seemed depressed. In my conference about 
my essay with Meg, she said my argument was devastating (in a 
good way), but “Maybe I'm just in a mood to be devastated today.” 
In 103, and when Keith gave his customary, “Hi Everyone!” greeting, 
the response was an extremely dysthymic “Hi Keith.” At dinner, 
Andrew, Peter, and I met with Erica to home teach her, and most of 
the talk was about the election. Personally, I have come to my peace 
with it. Worse things have happened, and to be honest, it's probably 
not going to affect my life that much. (We'll see.) It does galvanize 
me to want to be more active in causes like climate policy advocacy 
though. Anyway, besides all that, I made progress on my essay, read 
a paper about Bayesian models of stuff in lab, and took the 103 
practice midterm, which went well. Habla also went well. 
In scripture study, I read Elder Nelson's talk about “Joy and Spiritual 
Survival.” He notes that, in the last days “perilous times would come 
[check], that in our day the whole world would be in commotion 
[check], that men would “be lovers of their own selves, [Donald 
Trump] … without natural affection, … lovers of pleasures more than 
lovers of God [Donald Trump],” and that many would become 
servants of Satan who uphold the adversary’s work. Indeed, you and 
I “wrestle … against the rulers of the darkness of this world, [and] 
against spiritual wickedness in high places [Donald Trump].” Okay, I 
may have done some editorializing there, but the point of the talk is, 
despite all that, I can be happy, even joyful, and that's part of the 
reason we have the gospel here. In fact that's the reason we are here 
for in the first place, to have joy. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° CLEAR 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2016 AT 1:07 AM 

Good day today. Had PWR in the morning where we first reflected 
on the election, then had a good laugh at the “Really Bad PPT” 
slides that people had put together for the assignment. I had lunch 
with Sam Good at Olives after I bumped into him there, and went to 
institute. In HCI, we learned about “The Design of Everyday Things.” 
We also tried to clarify some feedback that Shubha had given us, but 
she seemed to keep contradicting herself, so Kent and I were more 
confused by the end than when we'd started. Other things also 
happened today. Mostly me working on my PWR essay, and going 
over the 103 PSet with Scotty. To bed. 
In institute, I learned that Joseph Smit revised earlier revelations to 
be in line with later learning, suggesting that he viewed his 
revelations as more flexible and organic than we often characterize 
them to be today. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2016 AT 1:32 AM 

Fun day today. Finished up my PWR essay draft. Now I just have two 
midterms and an oral presentation rehearsal between now and 
Thanksgiving. Si se puede! Compiled our heuristic evaluations into 
one giants megadoc for the group we're giving feedback to. Zac 
Farnesworth talked about his mission at FriFo, which was fun. We 
discussed context-free grammars in 103. I had dinner with Sheetal, 
and it was really fun to be able to catch up with her. I invited her to 
come to church on Sunday, and she seemed excited about it, so 
hopefully she can make it. In the evening, a bunch of Mormon 
students gathered at the church and set up a projector outside on 
the wall for a “drive-in movie” experience to surprise Brickelle for 
her birthday. She was super happy about it when the “big reveal” 
came. We watched “Wait Until Dark,” which is a great movie. (I saw 
the black box play at Wayzata years ago.) Very fun time. 
In scripture study, I learned to beware of belief perseverance like the 
scribes and chief priests have. I should consider the opposite and 
reflect often on my beliefs. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2016 AT 12:05 AM 

Good day today. Worked a lot on practicing for 103. It always 
seemed like there was one problem on each of the practice 
problems that I didn't know how to do… Kent came over for family 
call and we discussed Thanksgiving and the Trumpocalypse. I went 
to the chorale concert in the evening, which was fun. 
Now someone is blasting Christmas music outside so loud that it 
comes clear though the closed window… 
In scripture study, I learned that people need different approaches to 
learning the gospel. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2016 AT 9:43 AM 

Overall, I think his week went well. I worked very hard in my classes 
and was able to get a pretty solid first draft off for PWR. I hopefully 
contributed something concrete in lab. I was able to be a good SoFo 
with my emergency Oreo distribution program post-election. I got a 
few more binders out. I want to give two to Sam today and then will 
give one to Chris sometime soon. I have no idea on the location of 
the other Sam, so I'd have to figure that out. Andrew, Peter, and I 
were able to do a bit of home teaching, which was good. Scripture 
study went well overall, and I think I fell asleep less than previous 
weeks. Prayers were fair, but I feel like I lost focus a lot, so I should 
try to pray out loud more. Habla went well, since at least I was able 
to be paired with someone to teach this week. I was able to do some 
fun social activities this week too, like Brickelle's drive-in movie 
birthday party, or going to see the chorale concert (although I should 
have done that with the FroSoCo group, or rather sought them out 
when I got there). It was also nice to catch up with Sheetal and invite 
her to church, which she seemed excited about, although she wasn't 
able to come this Sunday. 
I'm having trouble getting along with Shubha and her feedback, 
which often seems contradictory to me. I'll need to pray for charity 
to deal with that, and try to complain less and focus more on 
addressing the issues from the feedback, clarifying what it means, or 
if necessary, pushing back for a better grade. I'd like to go on a date 
this week, maybe ask someone out for dessert after finals and 
projects are over. Besides that, I have a lot of work to do to prepare 
for my tests, so I'll probably avoid too much other extracurricular 
stuff this week. I am looking forward to going to Michigan to see my 
family this week. I know I'll have quite a bit of work, so I'll have to 
prioritize spending time with them, and make time to do work 
during off hours. I did a good job of keeping my thoughts clean this 
week, which I hope to continue doing. I think that about covers 
everything. 

Everything, that is, except the election. As I have already written 
here, I am appalled by the results of the election and deeply 
disturbed that a man so unqualified for office could be elected. 
However, being appalled won't fix the problem, so I need to move 
forward constructively. Here are several concrete ways to do so. 

1) Understand his supporters 
Read Hillbilly Elegy 
Reach out to people from my mission 
2) Support climate policy 
Donate to Climate Reality (after researching it a bit more) and 
encourage my friends and family to do the same. Maybe that 
could even be a Christmas present. 
Sign petitions, write letters, marshal data, whatever it takes to 
move the needle on public and political opinion 
3) Have charity 
Hate wins if I attack people who voted for Trump, or if I 
reflexively criticize everything he says and does. I will withhold 
judgement until more evidence comes in of his true governing 
policies, and will support those who work across the aisle with 
him. If he succeeds then the country does, so I should hope for 
the best. 
554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° HAZY 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2016 AT 11:43 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Did lots of 103 prep but still seemed like one 
out of every four problems I had trouble with. Church was “meet the 
Mormons” Sunday, so there were some good talks and there was a 
linger-longer afterwards. Had a group meeting for 147 which was 
productive-ish. Distributed some LDSSA binders with Sam Good. 
Trying to get to bed early so I'm rested for tomorrow's test. 
In scripture study, I learned that often the easiest route to helping 
someone or getting to Jesus is blocked. We have to work together, 
be creative, and break down artificial barriers to do so, but in the 
end, we will be blessed for our faith. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016 AT 12:00 AM 

Good day today. Ran and did laundry in the morning. Went through 
all of the 103 practice problems that I'd missed and redid them. 
Ungh, Apple's stupid undo button just deleted most of my entry, 
since I accidentally hit undo, then hit space… Really poor design. 
Anyway, I went to institute, where we discussed Christ's Atonement 
and resurrection. After more 103 practice, I went to the midterm. It 
went fairly well. I don't think I aced it and I don't think I bombed it. 
There were lots of true/false questions, which hadn't been on the 
practice problems. However, the practice did help me a lot on the 
proofs, especially a graph theory problem that I spent about half my 
time on, but with some insight (and heavenly inspiration), I think a 
got an elegant solution. After the midterm, I worked on my slides for 
my PWR presentation. I ran though it once and it's 15 minutes. It's 
supposed to be 10. I only included one point of the four I make in 
my paper. I worked on cutting some stuff, and will tomorrow. I went 
to Habla sure both me and my tutee were rather sleepy, but she did 
well. 
In scripture study, I learned that, since what is spoken of under the 
influence of he Holy Ghost is scripture, then we can glean inspiration 
from sacred texts outside of our canon, as I imagine those also have 
some influence of the Spirit in them. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016 AT 12:10 AM 

Good day today. Didn't have PWR today because we're doing our 
presentations instead, so I practiced that. I've gotten it down to 
about 10 minutes on the dot, which is good. In institute, we had a 
researcher come and use us as a focus group to discuss the new 
“Elevate Learning” program. I'd say there was general consensus 
that people like the ability to have an open forum discussing 
controversial issues and questions about the church, which the 
program does facilitate. We also were all very meh about 
graduation. It's just not why we go to institute. After that, I went to 
147, where we discussed usability testing and did review for the 
midterm, which, like the rest of this class, seems random and 
arbitrary. There was no lab meeting today, so after class I just did 
more homework. In the evening, I went to the last session of the 
Election 2016 class. (I won the lottery to actually get a seat in 
CEMEX, although I don't know how many people actually entered 
the lottery in the first place.) There was a lot of doom and gloom, 
including a very disturbing prediction 1998 prediction by Richard 
Rorty about America electing a strongman that seemed to come to 
pass 
https://www.google.com/amp/s/themultidisciplinarian.com/20… 
rorty-on-election-2016/amp/?client=safari https://www.google.com/a 

mp/s/themultidisciplinarian.com/2016/11/09/richard-rorty-on-election-2016/amp/ 
?client=safari 

One of the speakers also said, “We are implicated” as part of the 
problem as Silicon Valley elites. It's an interesting premise, but I 
would like to know more specifically how, so we can start to change 
it. That's it for today. 
In scripture study, I was once again amazed at king Anti Nephi Lehi's 
gratitude in the face of his impending death and the genocide of his 
entire people. I guess when the gospel gives you that eternal 
perspective, death doesn't seem so bad, and you feel a lot more 
blessed. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° PARTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016 AT 12:03 AM 

Good day today. Practiced PWR presentation in the morning, which I 
gave in the afternoon, which went well. (All three of us who 
presented actually ended up knowing each other, which was funny.) I 
also worked on 103 and studied for the 147 midterm tomorrow. I 
went to institute, where we had a decent discussion about Mark and 
what it means to supersede the law. In 103, we discussed Turing 
machines, and I was very tired, so I'll have to rewatch part of the 
lecture. In the evening, I did more homework, then had dinner with 
Kent, after which we reviewed for 147. Went to Habla but didn't 
have anyone to tutor, so ended up leaving early and going to hall 
meeting. 
In scripture study, I read in D&C 70. It does really convert God's 
mercy in saving as many of His children as possible. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016 AT 11:40 PM 


Good day today. Didn't have PWR in the morning, so I did some 
more studying for my 147 midterm in the afternoon. It was just as 
Prof. Landay said it would be: a ridiculous mishmash of arbitrary 
questions. There was one where you had to sketch out basically an 
entire app the compressed a complicated website. In 28 minutes. I 
barely finished everything on time. The multiple choice questions 
were all ambiguous, like asking who invented things that were kind 
of invented by multiple people. Anyway, it's over now. I also had a 
conference with Meg on my paper and got some concrete, 
constructive feedback. It's so nice to work with sane writing teachers. 
After PWR, our group (less Kev) had a powwow about what we 
wanted to accomplish over break and interface decisions. I started 
work on the core data design, which I tried to do on the cluster 
computers, only to discover that they were running old versions of 
Swift and Xcode with no way to update them. Every time I tried to 
add an entity to the database, Xcode crashed, so I eventually gave 
up and just used the virtual machine on my laptop, which, ironically, 
was faster. Finally, I met with Scotty today to go over the PSet, and 
we got very similar answers, which is encouraging. Oh yes, also had 
institute today and discussed a broader meaning of the word 
“translation” and the historicity of the Book of Abraham. I realized 
that I never put pictures in here, so I put the database on the top. 
In scripture study, I learned that when the cares of the world choke 
you, then the word “does not bear fruit.” It may not die altogether, it 
just won't be effective in changing you or be fulfilling. When I feel 
that way, I should examine my life and personal worship for choking 
“cares of the world.” 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016 AT 10:09 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, I did laundry and worked a bit on 
the core data for Poligraph. I also went to 147 section where we did 
a useless activity where we planned out everything our group would 
do from now to the end of the quarter. I say useless because half of 
our group was gone and Kev was kind of checked out, so it was 
mostly me writing things up with no buy-in or input. After that, I 
went to FriFo, where Rich Wells spoke about his time at Stanford and 
a bit on his involvement in the draw. After working more on 
Poligraph, I went to 103, where we learned about Turing Machines 
and the Church-Turing Hypothesis, that every conceivable 
computing device is weaker than or equivalent to the Turing 
machine in terms of the problems it can solve. It was pretty mind-
blowing. I felt like we were approaching some fundamental truth of 
the universe. After that, I packed and did some homework, before 
departing for the airport on a Lyft with Kent. After getting there, we 
had a lovely Nutella, strawberry, and blueberry crepe and discussed 
how to parse JSONs for Poligraph. I'm writing this as our flight is 
about to take off. Hopefully I can catch some sleep. I'm super 
excited to g I to Michigan and spend some time with family! 
In scripture study, I read Alma 26. It felt very authentically like a 
return missionary's account, and I identified with many of the things 
Ammon said. 

37.6146° N, 122.383° W 

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2016 AT 9:49 PM 


Good day today, if it could be called a day. Kent and I arrived in 
Michigan around 5:30 am, got our luggage, and got driven home by 
Padre. After we arrived, we had a lovely breakfast of pumpkin waffles 
made by Madre. We then proceeded to conk out, and I slept fitfully 
until 11:30, when I got up and showered and started getting 
assigned tasks by Mooples. We had an nice lunch at Songbird cafe, 
although flakes of snow kept flurrying around, a product of the Kent 
storm that always accompanies his coming home. In the afternoon, I 
did some 103 and worked with Kent to try to get the data loaded for 
147, which we did make a lot of progress on. I also helped cook 
dinner (we had Cobb Salad, Sister Schubert rolls, and cranberry 
apple crisp. Perhaps the most entertaining thing of the day was that 
Padre got Kent and me these little micro quadrocopters that you 
could fly around the house, although only Padre has been very good 
at it. 
To be honest, I didn't do scripture study today, since it kind of 
blended into Friday, but I'll read a few verses before retiring. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 32° SNOW 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2016 AT 7:23 AM 

This week was good. I basically did a lot of homework and studying 
in preparation for varios midterms, projects, and presentations. 
Overall, I think they went well. I did well on scripture study and 
prayer. I didn't do too much with friends because I was working so 
much 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 31° LIGHT SNOW 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2016 AT 8:20 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Went to church, where our song went well, 
and Brother Quinn gave an excellent talk on having a “vision” of 
your life purpose. I do feel like I have a vision of achieving happiness 
by making a positive difference in the world, including having a 
family, pursing a career that helps others and is meaningful to me, 
and advocating for issues I care about, like gay rights and climate 
change mitigation. Anyway, after church we had Mrs. Evan's chicken 
for lunch, and I made pumpkin bars. Kent and I worked more on 
Poligraph (perhaps not the best use of Sunday time, oh well). We did 
play with our copters more, and got much better at piloting them. 
In scripture study, I learned that Jairus was patient with the woman 
with an issue of blood, who detained Jesus on his way to heal his 
daughter. I too, should not begrudge others their healing, and 
should look on them with charity, rather than envy. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 28° SCATTERED SNOW SHOWERS 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016 AT 10:34 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, Kent and I worked on our app, 
then we went out to lunch with Dad at Frita Batido's a Cuban street 
food place in downtown Ann Arbor that I really like. (Kent and I also 
made baked apple cider doughnuts for breakfast, so it was a full-on 
grease fest.) Grammie and Grandpa arrived in the afternoon, so we 
greeted them and helped them get settled in (and answered the 
obligatory questions about our lives). In the evening, Kent, Mom, 
and I went to the Economic Dinner Group, where one speaker 
discussed Brexit (he was just okay), and the other, a political scientist 
at UMich, gave a very good analysis of the presidential election and 
how the results were primarily driven by differential turnout in swing 
states (Democratic turnout down, Republican turnout up, both from 
people staying home/getting energized and some vote switching). 
The meeting was dominated by old white males, so we ducked out 
after the presentation was done and before dinner to eat instead at 
Panera (just like last time I accompanied Mom to this event). I also 
got my score back on my 103 midterm during the event, and I did 
reasonably well, thought not great. 
In scripture study, I admire king Anti-Nephi-Lehi's willingness to do 
anything the Lord asked of him, even if it meant giving up his life. He 
had a vision of his purpose that was tied to the Lord's priorities for 
him. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016 AT 6:44 PM 

Good day today. Made a lot of progress on the app, and submitted 
a pull request for the feed and question views. In the afternoon, I did 
cooking with Kent and Mom, making pumpkin soup, thankful 
cookies, and Anadama bread for dinner. It was kind of hectic, but it 
all came together in the end. This evening, Kent, Dad, and I saw 
“Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them.” 
In scripture study, I learned that 

3686 JACKSON RD, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2016 AT 9:02 PM 

Good day. Lots of cooking. Somegames. Code names fun, Settlersnot. More cooking and coding. 

In scripture study, learned that the happiness of he world is fleeting 
and soon trampled by reality. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 38° LIGHT RAIN 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2016 AT 10:17 AM 


Happy Thanksgiving! Today was the usual festival of cooking, eating, 
and napping. I woke up just in time to see the ribbon cutting for the 
Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, which we watched in Spanish on 
Telemundo because all the other local channels were covering the 
Detroit parade. Padre and I did our traditional roll preparation, and I 
fulfilled my role as a recipient of the Oral History of the Mashed 
Potatoes from Madre, which have no written recipe. We sat down to 
eat at 12:55 pm and had a lovely meal with all my favorites 
(including, of course, the Bouche de Thanksgiving, which I'd 
prepared yesterday with Madre). It was minorly disturbing that after 
the meal was over, it took more time to clean the dishes than it did 
to eat the food. After that, Kent and Dad watched Gypsy, while I 
read a science fiction book that I'd gotten last night on the couch. It 
was quite a lovely Thanksgiving Day. 
In scripture study, I read about Korihor and learned that, while we 
may come to believe our rationalizations, the light of Christ will 
continually tug at us to remind us at they are not true. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 43° OVERCAST 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2016 AT 10:26 AM 

Good day today. In the morning (after pie for breakfast), we all went 
to see the movie Arrival about a linguist who tries to communicate 
with aliens that land on Earth. It turns out that time is relative in their 
language, and as she learns it, she starts seeing visions of her future, 
which allows her to avert an international crisis caused (ironically), by 
a failure of communications among the humans. It was a cool movie 
and I think people generally liked it. After our traditional leftover roll 
sandwiches for lunch, we did some reading and chilling, and packed, 
sealed, labeled, and stamped our family Christmas cards. I also got a 
new game called “Invisible Inc” a turn-based stealth game where 
you play as a group of spies trying to infiltrate corporate locations. I 
also ended up finishing the first book my science fiction series and 
went on to the next one. Finally, I did a bit of Black Friday shopping 
for Christmas presents online. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2016 AT 10:03 AM 

I was really glad that I could spend Thanksgiving break with my 
family this week. I enjoyed y time with them, and was able to make 
good progress on my homework in all my classes. I think I kept my 
thoughts pretty clean, and I helped out with cooking and cleaning a 
lot and stayed in a generally good mood. However, as Kent noted, I 
think there was more tension overall than last year, partly because of 
visiting grandparents and Kent's job search. However, I think this was 
partly a consequence of not doing family scripture study, so I will 
lobby for that over winter break. Since I was on break, I did not do a 
great job at keeping up my good habits. Over the coming break, I'll 
need to make sure to have a habit of getting up at a reasonable 
hour, exercising, and studying scriptures. My prayer, scripture study, 
and journal keeping were intermittent at best, and I think I would 
have been happier over the break had I kept those going strong. I 
will also make a better effort to give full attention and focus to my 
family, rather than games or work. For this upcoming week, I of 
course want to keep the aforementioned good habits going, as well 
as eating healthily. I would also like to go on a date, which I will need 
to plan. I also would like to magnify my callings as a SoFo and a 
fellowshipper. I'll think of who I can visit today, will continue my Oreo 
Fairy activities, and cal a fellowshipping meeting with the committee 
and Brickelle. Besides that, I'll be working hard in my classes. I think 
I'm in a good place for all of them. The biggest things will be 
working on the 147 project and studying for the 103 final. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2016 AT 8:55 PM 

Good day today. Did scripture study and reflection in the morning, 
and went to church, where one speaker discussed adhering to God's 
plan for us, and the high council speaker drew gospel analogies from 
a triathlon (and I became very sleepy). Candice gave a good Sunday 
School lesson on the first few chapters in Ether. I thought it was 
interesting how it showed three ways the Lord helps us solve 
problems. Some He takes care of Himself, like navigating the 
Jaredites. Some, he gives us the solutions to and asks us to 
implement them, as he did with the air holes in their barges. Finally, 
sometimes God asks us to develop a solution and bring it to Him, as 
He did with lighting the vessels. Note that God didn't abandon the 
brother of Jared here, he actually said “what will ye that I should 
prepare for you that he may have light?” (Ether 2:25). In situations 
like these, God invites us to be co-creators of solutions with Him. 
Anyway, after that lesson, we 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016 AT 12:04 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, I revised my PWR essay and 
struggled to get the appropriate CocoaPod downloaded on my 
laptop for Poligraph. I shared a spiritual thought on considering 
miracles in our own lives in institute. In 103, we learned more about 
Turing machines, and how you can simulate any Turing machine on 
the universal Turing machine. After doing some more 103, I met with 
Kent at 7:00 and worked on Poligraph until midnight. (Totally 
forgetting about Habla, I just realized!) we made a lot of progress 
though, and mostly got the task we wanted to implement for this 
week done. 
In scripture study, I learned that, it's considering and reflecting on 
miracles that makes them faith-building experience. Just like we 
study scriptural miracles, we should examine the miracles in our own 
lives, our personal scriptures, and lessons we can take from them. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016 AT 9:07 AM 

Good day. Watched PWR presentations in the morning. In institute, 
discussed the vision of the three degrees of glory in D&C 76 and 
what it means to be “begotten” of God. Guest speaker in HCI, 
sleepy. Lab meeting, sleepy. Worked more on 147 project and made 
good progress. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016 AT 11:01 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, I had lab with Patrick and we 
discussed a strange stop signal task in a paper he's reviewing, 
making a generalized linear model for the “beast”, an n-back stop 
signal take, and some MRI quality control. In the afternoon, I learned 
about unsolvable problems in the 103 (namely, problems not in R). In 
the evening, I had dinner with Kent and worked on Poligraph more. I 
also went to Habla and talked with a woman named Linda who was 
visiting there, since it was the last day of class party. Hopefully I 
convinced her to come next quarter. 
In scripture study, I learned that, if I want Christ to be an advocate 
for me, then I must advocate for Him. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 41° MOSTLY CLEAR 

December 2016 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016 AT 12:48 AM 

Good day today. More PWR presentations in the morning. More app 
work. Ask is done, although there's some polishing to do. We went 
through UI example in 147, which was interesting. After that, Kent 
and I did some App polishing. After death by chocolate and 103 
PSet checking, I did some XCOM. I was playing the Gatekeeper 
missions, which executed beautifully. Got to give Brickelle a 
blessing, which was nice. She's considering retiring from competitive 
swimming, and she's meeting with her coaches tomorrow about it, 
which is really stressful. Peter and I were able to share some 
thoughts which hopefully helped. It kind of reminds me of over the 
summer when I was trying to decide if I should continue with Chorale 
and I got all stressed out and emotional about it, and I didn't really 
understand why. Maybe part of it was to help me be more 
empathetic in situations like this one. If so, I'm grateful for that. 
In scripture study, I read about Alma and building faith. I concluded 
that gaining faith is kind of like doing experimental science. When 
you do something and get a positive result, it increases your 
confidence, but you don't have a perfect knowledge. As you 
replicate those results more and more, your confidence increases, 
and you can build on the results to do greater and greater things. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2016 AT 1:58 AM 

App coding. Unsolveable problems.
Old Spaghetti Factory. 2:00 am. 

So yes, I worked late into the night on Poligraph, although I made 
some fair progress. Today we also had a Friday Forum by Ann Miura-
Ko, who's a powerful venture capital partner and an LDS mom. She 
gave some cogent remarks on her life story, which consisted of a real 
serendipitous events resulting from her putting herself in the right 
place at the right time, like when she gave the CEO of HP a tour of 
Yale's engineering school and he invited her to shadow him for two 
weeks over spring break! In the evening, we had LDSSA Special D at 
the Old Spaghetti Factory in Redwood City. It was really fun to 
spend time with friends and banter. (The food was just fine. My pasta 
was like a cheese explosion.) That's it. 
In scripture study, I decided to send an nice Christmas note to Mom 
since she's in London on the job search. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2016 AT 11:31 PM 

Good day today. I worked on the app from when I woke up until 
dinner time, took a brief break to read Time, then work on 103. Took 
a break to play XCOM, with two superb missions. Advent didn't 
know what hit 'em. I then did some more app polishing. Now into 
the final week, so I'm going to have to hit 103 with all I've got. That's 
it. 
In scripture study, I learned that we are all blind, but when Jesus 
heals us, we can perceive that it is a wonderous thing, and this builds 
our faith. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 39° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2016 AT 10:25 AM 

This week was good overall, although there are some ways that I'd 
like to improve. I kept my thoughts clean, which was good, and I 
also made a lot of progress on the 147 project, although I spent 
more time han anticipated on that this week. I'm happy with my 
academic performance this week, including getting the class high 
score on the 147 midterm, yay! I was still able to do some fun things, 
like go to LDSSA special D, which was a blast. I'm bummed that I 
ended up missing the shoes service project to work on 147, but I'll 
keep my eyes open for opportunities this week. I'd also like to do 
more to reach out as a SoFo and fellowshipper. First, I'm going to 
contact Brickelle, Sam, and Andrew about meeting this week. (Just 
did actually.) I should also talk with Aaron about what we can do to 
boost FroSoCo's spirits during dead week. Finally, I'm going to 
continue doing the Advent calendar service thing, which I felt like 
helped me out this week. I was able to give a blessing to Brickelle 
and send a card to Mom, which was nice. Besides that, I just want to 
keep up on the fundamentals of scripture study and prayer. I have a 
lot to study for this week, mainly 103 as well as my PWR 
presentation. I know I'll have to turn down some activities this week, 
so I should be judicious in choosing them. Finally, I'm not going to 
play computer games until after my 103 final. It's bailing time, so I'm 
going to batten down the hatches and get to work. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2016 AT 11:13 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Fast Sunday. Went to ward choir practice for 
the Christmas program in the morning, which had all of six people 
excluding the director. The music is easy though. After church, I 
skipped out on the LDSSA activity watching the First Presidency 
Christmas Program for time's sake and instead just watched it on my 
own while writing my Evernote. Did a lot of 103 and a bit of 
Poligraph. Hope to sleep early. I should practice my PWR 
presentation tomorrow, after I hammer out the essay conclusion. 
In scripture study, I learned that, because lasting peace comes from 
knowledge of God's approval (like Helaman 10:4-5) and a hope of 
eternal life (see Ether 12:4), it's independent of our life 
circumstances. Rather, if we want lasting peace, the we should seek 
to obtain that approval and that hope. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016 AT 11:53 PM 

Good day today. Practiced PWR and 103 in the morning and got a 
better conclusion for my presentation. In 103, we discussed the 
great P = NP? question. Intuitively it seems like P != NP (which 
seems like the more depressing yet realistic result. Some problems 
are hard and there's nothing you can do about it.) However, this 
question is thorny enough to have stumped theorists for 44 years, so 
it's not that simple. After doing more 103 in the evening, I went to 
FHE, where we had chocolate tasting ....... The highest-voted 
was a raspberry milk chocolate, which was most tasty. (Which I 
personally voted second place.) 
In scripture study, I was very tired and took a power nap. I also 
learned that, sometimes we try to do something good and feel like, 
“Welp, that was a waste of time.” (Look up Welp on Urban 
Dictionary). However, just like Mary of Bethany who anointed Jesus 
either spikenard, when we've “wrought a good work” and “done 
what we could” our offering is acceptable to God (see Mark 14:3-9). 
To Him, it is not wasted. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° PARTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016 AT 12:50 AM 

Good day today. Watched PWR presentations. Did 103 stuff. Last 
147 class. In the evening, I met with Brickelle, Sam, and Andrew to 
discuss a fellowshipping activity we can do on Saturday. I also 
tutored Kent's munchkin on Trailblazer since Kent is in Seattle, and 
was richly compensated for it ($133 for 2 hours 40 minutes!!!!! 
Probably the most I've made in that time span ever.) The problems 
themselves weren't difficult, but it was sometimes hard to tell how 
much information to share/hint at/ point out, being both helpful and 
facilitating learning. (And observing the honor code, which I read 
twice before tutoring to ensure I didn't do anything untoward, which 
I don't think I did.) 
In scripture study, I searched for scriptures representative of me for 
the “light the world” campaign. I interpreted this as representative 
of my philosophy, priorities, and outlook. In addition to 2 Nephi 
26:23-28, I chose John 15:13-14, as I want to be called a friend of 
Christ. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 45° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2016 AT 12:07 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, attempted to go to Shubha's office 
hours, but she wasn't there (overslept), so I just worked on the app 
for an hour. I then had an abbreviated lab session with Patrick from 
11:00-1:00 where I mostly did MRI quality control, and he found a 
cool result from the “beast” n-back stop signal task. Apparently 
accuracy was lower on trials when the participant was supposed to 
stop on the n-back trial and did so (ie. successful inhibition). This 
indicates that maybe, the global inhibitory signal sent when 
stopping affects not only motor movement but memory trace! 
(There's already evidence that this global suppressive signal sent 
when stopping inhibits not just the finger press but other motor 
movements as well.) So that was pretty cool. After lunch, Kent and I 
went to Shubha's real office hours and got feedback on Poligraph. I 
then went to 103 where we discussed NP-hard and NP-complete, 
which I'll have to review. I then worked on the app until going over 
to Hamm to have dinner, which Kent had coordinated as head chef. 
It was most delicious. After working more on the app, I took a 103 
practice final, which went well (although I haven't yet checked my 
answers). I was able to answer every question and finish in 1:45 
(you're given 3 hours). I still have some polishing up to do, but if the 
real final is like that, I should be in a pretty good place. I also 
peaches my PWR presentation, which I'm giving tomorrow. Yay. 
In scripture study, I read about the pouring out of the Spirit 
associated with the Kirkland era. Just as the saints then 
demonstrated their desire for the Spirit through sacrifice, I 
demonstrate how much I want to have the Spirit with me by how 
much I prioritize activities that invite it and avoid activities that dispel 
it. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2016 AT 12:34 AM 

Good day today. I had my PWR presentation in the morning which 
went very well. Meg called it “superb” and gave me an A+ on it! 
Yay! Kent and I also wrapped up Poligraph, and I did more 103 
studying and worked on my PWR essay. In the evening, Kent and I 
went to the Juntos office party. (Kent also just accepted an offer with 
Palantir. Exciting!) It was fun to go back to the office and see 
everyone again. I even heard that my response rate analyzer was 
recently deployed to run automatically and was well-received. Yay! 
After that, I met with Scotty to go over our last problem set. It's been 
a fruitful partnership. 
In scripture study, I learned that, it is especially when I enter the 
wildernesses of my life that I should cry unto God. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2016 AT 12:07 AM 

Good day. 147 section, went over pitches. Had Friday Forum, where 
we ate a real turkey (!) and played apples to apples, which was the 
highlight of the day. Had last 103 class, which was sad. Did some 
homework with Kent hanging out in my room, then went to the 147 
project fair, which was a three and a half hour extravaganza 
exhibiting all the quirks of the class, from the semi-random way in 
which rewards were distributed (the group that got best hardware 
had an iPad app…) to the way most questions we got centered on 
things we'd been explicitly told not to think about, like"How do you 
select your experts?“ and "What about malicious users?” I'm just 
glad it's over. I attempted a practice 103 final, but was too tired, so 
now I'm going to bed. 
In scripture, I listed many, many things I'm grateful for. Right now, it's 
a soft bed and sleep. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2016 AT 12:19 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, I finished up my second practice 
103 final, which didn't feel that great while I was taking it, but I 
ended up doing a good job when I checked my answers. I also 
worked on my PWR essay throughout the day, and ended up with a 
final draft that I'm satisfied with. At noon, I called my family and 
chatted. I'm excited to be flying home on Monday night. It should 
be a fun break. In the afternoon, Sam Good, Andrew Gonzales and I 
met up to distribute pack of gum, pass along cards, and notes of 
encouragement to people in the LDSSA. We got the majority of our 
list, although there are still some left for tomorrow. It was fun and 
gratifying to do something for someone else. Speaking of which, 
today's “Light the World” challenge was to help people walk. I felt 
like, “I have no idea how I could contribute to that.” But, in the 
larger theme of mobility, someone in FroSoCo fell on their bike 
today (They weren't hurt.) and it stopped working. They sent out an 
email asking to borrow a bike, and I offered to see if I could help fix 
it. Now, I ca basically count on one hand the types of bike problems 
that I can fix, but thankfully, this was one of them. The chain had slid 
off the gear, so I was able to put it back on in about 15 seconds, for 
which this person was super grateful. So, I'm glad that Heavenly 
Father let me help out in that small way. This evening, I went to see 
“Lessons and Carols,” which was very good. There was a much 
higher percentage of songs that I liked/enjoyed than in most choir 
concerts. MemChu choir sang Vaughan William's “A Spotless Rose,” 
which I particularly liked. We also sang “O Come O Come 
Emmanuel” as a congregational hymn (all seven verses!). I'm glad we 
did it though, because the last verse was slightly different text than 
I'm familiar with, and I think it was particularly appropriate for this 
divisive year: 

O come, Desire of Nations, bind 
all peoples in one heart and mind. 
Make envy, strife and quarrels cease; 
fill the whole world with heaven's peace 

I hope I can be an instrument in the hands of God to do just that. 
Like Alma, I know that He has supported me in all my trials and 
afflictions and will life me up if I put my trust in Him. I want others to 
feel that support as well. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2016 AT 9:40 AM 

I felt like this week was very good overall. In accordance with the 
“Light the World” challenges, I was able to send an e-card to Mom, 
and a card to Aunt Donna. I prayed for others more fervently, and 
with Sam and Andrew, we were able to distribute our little 
encouragement packets to a lot of people. I was also inspired to ask 
to help Helen with her bike, which turned out to be a quick but 
important fix. Today, I get to sing in the ward choir. So, I feel like 
even though it was dead week, I did a lot of things to invite the 
Christmas Spirit. On the minus side, I was a bit grumpy this week 
due to it being dead week, so I could have done better at being 
cheerier and more grateful, especially to Kent for helping with the 
app and cooking a lovely dinner. Tutoring was very lucrative, 
although it was hard to tell how much I could/should share and give 
hints. I did strive to work within the honor code as I understand it. 
Despite all the work, I was able to get some fun things done, like 
going to the Juntos holiday party and Lessons and Carols. I'm 
particularly glad I went to the latter, as it was actually quite a spiritual 
experience. Academically, things went well this week. I'm very happy 
with the A+ I got on my PWR presentation, and I think I was able to 
turn in a good final essay draft as well. I honestly did my best on 
making the app work well for 147, so whatever happens there 
happens. The arbitrary grading system isn't in my hands, but my 
effort is, and I put a lot of work in. For 103, I'm feeling fairly good 
about the final. As long as it goes as well as the two practice finals 
I've taken, I should be in good shape. It's hard to believe that I'm 
already wrapping up another quarter. It's been fun though. I feel like 
I was able to achieve better work-life balance this quarter, learned a 
lot, and had a lot of fun. After my 103 exam, I'll have some time to 
relax. I want to make sure that I prioritize spending that time with 
family over playing games and stuff, and that I give them my full 
attention and don't retreat into my phone. Over break, I'll need to 
work to keep the habits of exercise, prayer, and scripture study 
going. (Maybe I can read scriptures on the plane on the way over 
there, since otherwise that kind of gets washed out on the redeye.) 
I'm also going to do some coding interview practice so I'm prepared 
for the job search in the coming year. I'll also work to continue doing 
the “Light the World” challenges. Overall, it's been a good week, 
and I'm excited for the coming one as well. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2016 AT 10:47 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Had a busy morning. Had brunch with Kent 
and Connor (who happened to be in the dining hall when we were 
eating), then went out with Sam and Andrew to deliver more 
paquetes. We actually ended up getting almost all of the 
undergraduates in the LDSSA that we have an address for, which is 
cool for just two days of distributing. Sam and Andrew were both a 
big help. Since Catherine lives off campus, I decided to give one to 
her at church. However, I didn't see her after sacrament meeting, so I 
got worried that I'd missed her and would be able to give one to her 
(since she was really the inspiration for all of this in the first place, 
since she came by during dead week last year and dropped off a 
pack of gum and an inspiring note. However, as I was biking back 
from church, I took a different route and saw Catherine and Chloe 
(who I also had yet to give a packet to) and was able to talk to both 
of them, and explain a bit to Catherine how she's motivated all this. 
That encounter was definitely inspired. We also had our ward 
Christmas program today, which was very enjoyable. Maggie Ivory 
did an absolutely stellar job on the violin on “Bring A Torch, 
Jeanette, Isbella.” I sang in the choir for “Still, Still, Still” and “Away 
in a Manger,” both of which were acceptably good. After church 
there was a linger longer, then I dropped off a packet at Scotty's 
place (or what I think was his place…). I then biked home and took 
the last 103 practice midterm. I finished in two hours and took 20 
minutes to check my work. Comparing my answers against the key, 
there was only one point that I clearly got off, which is very 
encouraging. So, if the real final goes like any of these three 
practices, I should be in good shape. Also listened to lots of 

Christmas music. .. 


In scripture study, I learned from Alma teaching his son Helaman that 
the Book of Mormon is much like the Liahona, a faith-based 
guidance system. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° PARTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2016 AT 9:43 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, I ran and did laundry, then did 
some more studying for 103. After lunch and more studying, I did 
some packing, then more studying. Then, after looking through all 
the remainder of the practice problems, I took a break and read 
Time. Then it was the time of doing, and I went to Gates to take my 
final. I thought it went quite well. I was able to answer all of the 
questions and finish in about two hours (you're given three hours), so 
I had plenty of time to look over my work. I left about 20 minutes 
early, then after checking the mail and grabbing dinner at Ricker, I 
finished packing my backpack, cleaned up my room, took care of 
some errands, and played some “Hearts of Iron IV.” Long live the 
Glorious Italian Empire! Then Kent picked me up and drove me to 
the airport, where I breezed through bag check and security in 10 
minutes and am now waiting at the gate for my flight back to 
Michigan. So exciting! 
In scripture study, I learned that exercising faith and diligence is the 
key to progress. Otherwise (for example, if I neglect my scripture 
study), I become mired ina personal wilderness and son of progress 
in my mortal journey. 

37.6153° N, 122.383° W 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2016 AT 10:41 PM 

Good day today. I was recruited for various causes today, including 
trying to set up the virtual machine for a Mac on Padre's spare 
laptop, which ended up being a disaster. All the software 
downloaded fine, but when I after I enabled virtualization in the 
firmware, the computer wouldn't boot properly! It kept saying that it 
couldn't recognize any boot device. I tried numerous fixes including 
entirely powering down the computer, running checks on the hard 
drive, restoring from a restore point, restoring from a system image, 
resetting all BIOS settings, switching to legacy booting, using a USB 
boot drive, and performing a total windows reset, all to no avail. (I 
think the problem really had nothing to do with Windows or the 
software we downloaded, which is why some of those things didn't 
work.) so I guess it will need professional help. To top it all off, the 
internet and TV went out tonight, causing a minor freakout from 
Mooples. (It came back on the next day. It was apparently an areawide 
outage.) 
In scripture study, I learned that I should not allow myself to be 
invited to do I'll, as the Zoramites did to the Lamanites. 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 14, 2016 AT 11:56 AM 

Good day today. Got home, had a lovely breakfast. Slept until 10. 
Did course evaluations. Played HoI4. Padre and I went out for lunch 
at the Songbird Cafe, then in the evening we watched “Judgement 
at Nuremberg,” which is a great movie, in preparation for our trip. 
In scripture study, learned not to drown out the Spirit. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 20° CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2016 AT 10:32 PM 

Good day today. Played some Terraria and Age of Wonders 3, and 
did some cooking with Kentre and Madre. Wee went to Dibella's for 
lunch, which was rather greasy, picked up some long underwear for 
the trip at Dick's Sporting Goods, and got groceries at Meyers. We 
also made a trip to the local tienda, which I don't think I'd been to 
before, but literally looked like all the other tiendas I'd seen on my 
mission in the South. For dinner, we had posible, made by Kentre, 
which was, of a truth, rather bland (which I'm sure can be remedied 
with hot sauce). 
In scripture study, I thought about how I'd translate Alma's 
explanation of the Plan of Salvation into modern terms. 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2016 AT 10:26 PM 

Good day today. Played a bunch of Terraria, where I think I reached 
an inflection point where I got enough good weapons and armor 
that the game started to get easier. We had lunch at the Chelsea 
Common Grill, and I finished my rather mediocre Kindle book that 
I'd gotten on Monday. After a dinner of leftovers, we opened some 
of our Christmas presents early, since we're leaving for Germany 
tomorrow. I got some new shoes, socks, and shirts (all from Kentre) 
as well as books and chocolate. We also had a little dessert snack of 
marvelous mint chocolate chip cookies, mint merengues dipped in 

chocolate, and hot chocolate (see a theme? .. 
). 
In scripture study, I learned that Moroni's army was successful 
because they were fishing for a cause they believe in, so I should 
likewise choose my causes wisely. 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2016 AT 10:21 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Woke up and had quiche and Christmas bread 
for breakfast. finished up my Christmas letters to extended family. 
We went to church, where the talks were don discovering the 
restoration, and the second speaker somehow tied in an interesting 
story about her loss of identity when she retired from competitive 
swimming. We left after sacrament meeting, had a lunch of leftovers 
and cucumber sandwiches, and finished packing. At 3:00 pm, we 
departed for the airport for our trip to Germany. Our flight took off 
around 6:30. We're seated in business class, which is most lovely. 
After a delicious meal and watching “Kung and the Two Strings,” 
which was quite a good movie, I reckoned my seat 180 degrees and 
went to sleep for most of the flight, waking up with 36 minutes to 
landing. I'm now writing this entry as we head into Amsterdam for 
our connection. 
In scripture study, I learned that small disturbances can have a 
cumulatively destabilizing effect, which is why simple maintenance 
such as prayer and scripture study is so important. 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2016 AT 11:43 AM 

Interesting day today. After sleeping well on the plane, landed in 
Amsterdam and hung in the KLM lounge for an hour before taking 
the hopper flight to Nuremberg (which has a tiny regional airport. 
Their baggage claim is fast though.) We took a taxi to Hotel Five, 
which is a boutique place we're staying at, then flagged down the 
receptionist who was also serving as the restaurant waitress. After 
dropping off our luggage, we went to visit Nuremberg castle, which 
was one of the seats of the Holy Roman Emperors. It was mostly 
destroyed in WW2, so the interior was rather spartan. We then went 
to the Palace of Justice and saw room 600 where the Nuremberg 
trials were blend and I was very sleepy. We then went to the 
Christmas market, where we wandered and got Nuremberg sausage 
sandwiches and gingerbread. After a brief break, we went to dinner 
at a place Kent found on TripAdvisor that's in a sort of underground 
cave. The ambiance was nice, but there were only three staff 
members, so our food took about an hour to come (and our waitress 
disappeared to cook it shortly after we ordered.) So we spent around 

1:45 at the restaurant. We then returned to the Christmas market to 
get a crepe and a waffle covered in Nutella for dessert. 
Christmas Markets: 1 
Visits: 2 
OBSTMARKT 7, NUREMBERG, BAVARIA, GERMANY • 32° CLEAR 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 2016 AT 8:09 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, we went down to the 
Documentation Center, which is a museum on the Nazi rallies and 
buildings in Nuremberg, built within a stadium the Nazis were 
intending to use as a parade ground for the rally. (It's ginormous, but 
only was supposed to be used one day out of the year.) After 
getting. Sausages and pretzels for lunch at the center, we met Kevin, 
our American tour guide, who took us around various sites in the city 
connected with the Nazis, including parade grounds, the Zeppelin 
Field where Hitler gave speeches and the Americans blew up a giant 
golden swastika at the end of the war. (Also Padre wanted us to get 
a picture there, awkward.) We ended by the Palace of Justice and 
learned more about the trials. After that, we had dinner at a Czech 
place, where Kent and I had delicious beer goulash with bread 
dumplings). We then grazed at the Christmas market, getting a 
Schneeball, which is a balled shortbread cookie (ours was covered in 
chocolate, of course). 

Christmas Markets: 0 
Visits: 1 

OBSTGASSE, NUREMBERG, BAVARIA, GERMANY 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2016 AT 2:10 PM 

Good day. Bus to Prague. Late lunch of geese and goulash. 
Technical museum: cars, planes, appliances, and phones. Many 
Ubers. Christmas market yummy cinnamon thing. Dinner jazz singing 
river cruise with a side of screaming. 
Got an A in 147, yay! 
Beware of the influence of a small group of evil people to cause 
many people to follow. 

50.0822° N, 14.4267° E 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 22, 2016 AT 1:14 PM 

Good day today. Went on a walking tour of old town in the morning, 
where we saw buildings of Baroque and Gothic architecture (and a 
bit of Functionalist, Cubist, Renaissance, and Rococo). It's impressive 
how many different styles there are in Prague jumbled all together. 
After the tour, we had lunch at a nice Czech place where I had beef 
in cream sauce (Svícková). We had dessert at the nearby Christmas 
market in Old Town Square, where we are all things Nutella: Nutella 
Ball (like a doughnut with Nutella inside), Nutella Trdelnik (the 
spirally cinnamon thrift we first tried last night), and Nutella crepe. 
After that, we went on a second walking tour (with the same guide), 
this time to Prague Castle, which is a ginormous complex of 
buildings on a hill across the river, including St. Vitus Cathedral, 
which looks like a Czech Norte Dame (Sadly, it was closed.) The tour 
was good, but as you can see from the temperature, it was 27 
degrees Fahrenheit, so by the end we were all pretty cold and were 
glad to finish. After catching a quick room service dinner at the 
hotel, we went to see the Nutcracker, which was really a totally 
different story with the same music. I was very sleepy during the first 
half, but the dancing was well done. It didn't have much of a plot, 
but hey, it's a ballet, what can you expect? 
Christmas Markets: 1 (2 Grazed) 
Visited: 1 
In scripture study, I learned of the importance of preparing my mind 
spiritually for new situations. 

ŠTEPÁNSKÁ 624/40, PRAGUE, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC • 27° CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 22, 2016 AT 11:27 PM 

Good day today. We boarded a train for Dresden in the morning 
after much freakifying and having to walk through half of the train to 
get to our compartment. After a two hour ride, we arrived and 
caught a cab to the Hotel Suitess. We then went on a walking tour of 
the old town of Dresden (almost entirely rebuilt from its 1945 
bombing.), which is smallish, but charming. We went on a walking 
tour where we learned about Albert the Strong, elector of Saxony, 
who was obsessed with becoming a king, and so bribed and 
finagled his way into becoming King of Poland after converting to 
Catholicism. This offended the Lutherans, so he built the 
Frauenkirche for them in Dresden. That offended the Catholics, so 
he built a big old church for them too. After the tour, we visited the 
Frauenkirche, which was very pastel, a nice change from the Gothic 
caves in Nuremberg. Madre, Kent, and I also ascended to the top. 
We then went to a lovely sipping chocolate, then visited the biggest 
Christmas market in Dresden, where we procured stollen and other 
food items. After returning to the hotel for a nappyboo, we went to 
dinner at a local German place. (The square nearby was full of 
Christmas performers.) We then went to see “Tales of Hoffman,” a 
deranged opera about a man falling in love with various people. 
There were eyeballs falling from the sky… Kentre liked it, I wished it 
had a more comprehensible plot. 
Christmas Markets: 4 
Visits: 5 

51.0522° N, 13.7388° E 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 24, 2016 AT 1:55 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, we boarded a train from Dresden 
to Berlin, then went to the Adina Apartments Hotel to unpack. We 
picked up some groceries for lunch on Christmas Day, and 
attempted to visit one Christmas market, but it was closed, so we 
headed to another where we got greasy brats, schneeball 2.0, 
caramels, waffles, and other treats. After gorging ourselves, we went 
back to the hotel and took a rest. Since Christmas is observed on the 
24th in Germany, there wasn't a whole lot that was open. We did 
attempt to go to services at Berliner Dom, but the like was too long. 
Likewise for Marienkirche. Then we headed to dinner, which was a 
nice thee-course meal with venison, goose, and three kinds of 
desserts. Unfortunately, it was also a three hour epic, and both Kent 
and I bobbed heavily during it. We'd entertained notions of going to 
a mass later, maybe even at midnight, but we're so exhausted by the 
end that went straight back to the hotel, and Kent and I fell into our 
beds without even changing our clothes, awakening around 2:00 

a.m. to get into our PJs. 
Christmas Markets: 1 (plus one attempted visit) 
Visits: 1 
52.5524° N, 13.2906° E 

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 25, 2016 AT 2:09 PM 

Merry Christmas! It was a very unique Christmas Day. Kent and I 
woke up around 5:40 am, I played Terraria and he watched Netflix, 
then we had some hot chocolate and stollen around 7:00. When 
Madre roustified herself, we all got dressed and the three of us went 
to protestant Christmas services at Berliner Dom, where there was 
English translation. After that, we made sandwiches in our apartment 
for lunch, then took a rest. After our rest, we went to go sightsee, 
staring with the Memorial for the Murdered Jews of Europe. (I 
thought it rather strange that we're seeing it on Christmas.) We then 
walked over to the Brandenburg Gate, which we perused, and got 
sucked into a tourist trap museum when we were trying to kill time 
before going to the Reichstag. It had one room with a 20 minute 
movie that played on repeat. At least the movie was good. After 
that, we ascended the glass dome of the Reichstag, with a creepy 
audio guide that could sense exactly where you were. We then 
marched over to a Christmas market, which we perished, but it was 
quite chilly, so we crashed in a nearby Starbucks to regain our 
strength. We had dinner reservations at the Ritz at Pottsdammer 
Platz, where I enjoyed lovely lamb three ways. After dinner, we went 
to a lovely concert of Tchaikovsky, Rachmaninov, and Mendelssohn, 
which was very enjoyable, although Kentre and I may have been a 
little sleepy. (It was our bobbing time, what can you do?) I 
particularly liked Tchaikovsky's Romeo and Julieta, and the concert 
closed, fittingly, with the Dance of the Sugar Plums from the 
Nutcracker. 
Christmas Markets: 1 
Visits: 1 

52.5221° N, 13.4043° E 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 26, 2016 AT 1:26 AM 

Good day today. Filled with museums. In the morning, we went to 
the Pergammon Museum, on Museum Island, which contains Greek, 
Egyptian, and Near/Middle East antiquities. Right when you walk in, 
there's a stunning reconstruction of the Ishtar Gate of Babylon, 
towering in blue-glazed brick and covered with lions and chimeras. 
It's actually only the smaller, outer gate, so the real deal must have 
been even more impressive. When you walk through the gate, on 
the other side is a reconstruction of a Greek market gate, with fluted 
columns and statues, which is also quite impressive. We explored the 
first floor pretty throughly, then went to the second floor, which had 
Islamic art, and was much less interesting. We the. Went over to the 
Neue Museum next door, where we got lunch, and went at the 
Kentre pace, rubbing to the farthest corner of the museum to 
examine a millennia-old gold hat which apparently proved that the 
ancients had calculated the ratio of solar to lunar years (even though 
they were pre-literate.) We saw the mask of Nefertiti, which was 
indeed very lifelike. After perusing some sarcophagi and other 
things, we left the museum and went to the nearby DDR Museum 
about East Germany. It was quite crowded and maze-like, but did a 
very thorough job of discussing aspects of life there, from the quirks 
of the command economy (dirt cheap foodstuffs but constant 
shortages due to price controls) to sports, and media. After that, we 
took a break at the hotel, then headed to Friedrich Wilhelm church 
for an organ vespers. Personally, I think all organ music starts 
sounding the same after a while (andI may have bobbified 
somewhat), but the church did have some interesting artifacts, like a 
Madonna and Child drawn by a German solider in the back of a 
Soviet map in Stalingrad in 1942. After the service, we walked 
through the adjacent Christmas market, on our way to a tapas place 
for dinner. 
Christmas Markets: 1 
Visits: 1 

52.5524° N, 13.2906° E 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 27, 2016 AT 12:58 AM 


Good day today. It was our last full day in Berlin, which we filled with 
museums. We went first to the Topography of Terror, which discusses 
the Nazi police state run by the SA, SS, SD,, and Gestapo. Among 
pictures, descriptions, contemporary quotes and comments from 
historians, they also had excerpts from primary documents, which I 
thought were most revealing. For example, they had a memo to the 
police saying that they were preparing to arrest 20,000 to 30,000 
Jews (as part of Kristalnacht). After that, we had a snack of cake at 
the museum, then walked over to the Jewish Museum, with a brief 
stop for pictures at Checkpoint Charlie. In the Jewish Museum, we 
first explored the wonky architecture with “voided voids” and stairs 
to nowhere. Then, we took a bathroom break. But Padre did not 
emerge from the bathroom. Finally, we went in there, but all the 
stalls were empty and there was no Padre! It turns out that he had 
taken the elevator and wandered over to the 1933 section, leaving 
the rest of us very bumfuzzled. After retrieving him, we rushed 
through most of 1000 years of Jewish history in Germany and 
lingered more in the post 1900s sections. After that, we grabbed a 
late lunch (around 2:30) at the museum cafe, then bravely went off to 
the German History Museum. There, Madre, Padre, and Kentre got 
sucked into a movie which ended up being 45 minutes long. 
Meanwhile, U wandered the top floor, looking at artifacts form the 
Thirty Years War, paintings of Louis XIV, Napoleón, and the Franco-
Prussian War, I arrived at the bust of my hero Bismarck (shown 
above), thus completing all I needed to see in the museum, I did 
peruse WWI, and then we all went together down to the first floor 
and looked through history from 1925 and onward, although it kind 
of seemed like a rehash of the Topography of Terror and the DDR 
Museum. After that, we returned to our hotel very briefly, then had 
dinner at the top of the TV Tower, which afforded a stunning view of 
Berlin at night, but had only mediocre food. After that, we returned 
to our hotel and packed. 
In scripture study, I learned that it was internal dissensions, rather 
than external pressures that led to the greatest danger to the 
Nephite nation. Similarly, we should be most vigilant against the evil 
that is in ourselves. 
Christmas Markets: 0 
Visits: 0 

BERLIN, BERLIN, GERMANY • 45° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 28, 2016 AT 2:46 PM 

Good day today. Spent most of it traveling. After arising at 5:30 and 
showering, We headed to breakfast, then off to the airport. Since we 
were taking the hopper to Amsterdam, we weren't in the 
international terminal, so we had to wait in the hard metal chairs 
instead of the club, which was unfortunate because our flight got 
delayed 30 minutes before boarding and an hour after we boarded 
and before takeoff due to heavy fog in Amsterdam. Thankfully, our 
flight to Detroit was also delayed somewhat, so we were able to 
make the connection after sprinting through the airport. The flight 
was uneventful. Business class was most luxurious. I had a lovely 
dinner and watched two mediocre movies: “Captain America: Civil 
War” (Why is everyone fighting?) and “Independence Day: 
Resurgence” (Haven't I seen this movie before?) I also played some 
Terraria and updated my Evernote. 
In scripture study, I learned that God will bless us when we 
thoroughly consider our options and work to make an effective 
strategy. 

768 WAYMARKET DR, ANN ARBOR, MI, UNITED STATES 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 29, 2016 AT 7:25 AM 

Good day today. First full day back from Germany. I woke up rather 
early, around 4:30 am, and went down to play Terraria, only to find 
the Madre already there. (I Madre gray progress by the way, 
defeating all three mechanical bosses: the Destroyer, the Twins, and 
Skeletron Prime.) For breakfast, Mom got us Brugger's Bagels, to 
slowly wean us off the bread and sweets overload of Germany. (No 
Nutella though.) Dad, Kent, and I went out for lunch at Juicy Kitchen, 
which was cleansing, then Dad and I saw Rogue One, which I 
thought was very good. It was somewhat less derivative than the last 
Star Wars movie, and it definitely kept my attention. In the evening, 
we had Kent's kale and quinoa bowl with tofu to continue or post-
Berlin cleanse. 

5018 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 37° CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 30, 2016 AT 7:36 AM 


Good day today. I actually had more trouble sleeping, and awoke at 

3:30 am only to attempt unsuccessfully to get back to sleep until 
giving up and doing scripture study at 4:45 and getting up after that. 
I was interrupted briefly at 6:00 am by the Madre mumbling 
something about preparing the buche before she went back to sleep 
on the couch. Kent made kale, fruit, and grapefruit juice smoothies 
for us for breakfast, which was nice, although I'd awoken with an itch 
in my throats and started to come down with a cold. After breakfast, 
I began preparing the buche, cake, filling, and all, which I finished 
(and meagerly decorated myself) in the afternoon. In the evening, 
we had our traditional Christmas dinner of beef tenderloin, Yorkshire 
pudding, mashed potatoes and green beans, which was delicious. 
However, we were all so tired that Kent and I crashed on the couch 
and started falling asleep after dinner, and we couldn't even be 
roustified by the prospect of bouche, so we went to be around 8:30 
pm. (So the picture above is actually from the next day ) 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 29° CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2016 AT 7:45 AM 

Good day today. I woke up at quite early again (still not fully 
adjusted to Michigan time), and went down and played a bit of a 
demo of the Star Wars Battlefront game, to scratch the Star Wars itch 
awoken by Rogue One. We observed many of our normal Christmas 
traditions today, so after Kent got up (Mom was sleeping on the 
couch as usual.), we began preparing breakfast with hot chocolate, 
ham and cheese quiche (made by Kentre), the so-called “deranged” 
but delicious jam-filled scone (made by me), and unfrozen 
raspberries in syrup provided by Padre. It was quite tasty. After 
breakfast, we opened our stockings, and got yummy chocolates and 
goodies. We also opened the rest of our Christmas presents. (The 
first of which we'd opened before the trip.) I got some lovely books 
and games, new earbuds, and a Spotify gift card. All very fun. I 
played some games and we had lunch, interspersed with naps and 
break times. In the afternoon, we played Codenames, which I 
unfortunately lost most of the time. As we also sort of ovserved New 
Year's Eve today, we had lovely cheese fondue and salad for dinner. 
We played a very zombified game of Heads Up afterwards, because 
everyone was so tired, then turned on Kathy Griffith and Anderson 
Cooper on CNN for the traditional New Year's Eve celebrations. 
(They were as awkward as ever. Kathy wrapped Anderson in tin foil 
and kissed him on camera. He tried to be a good sport about it.) 
Kent, Padre, and I also began an epic game of Risk 2210, which 
started around 9:30 (well, we actually began playing at 10:00 after I 
finished setup and rules) and we played until I was declared winner 
around midnight. We watched the ball drop in NYC, swung our 
flashy lights, and popped our Christmas poppers, then all promptly 
went to bed. (Well, I read in bed a little before falling asleep.) Happy 
New Year! 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 38° SUNNY 

January 2017 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 1, 2017 AT 7:14 AM 

Good week overall this week. It was definitely different spending 
Christmas in Berlin. It didn't exactly feel like Christmas, with Kent 
and me crashing into bed at 8:30 on Christmas Eve still fully clothed, 
and visiting the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe on 
Christmas Day. It was a unique and memorable experience through. 
Personally, in the future I'd prefer to have trips not on Christmas. The 
rest of this week was uneventful. Mostly playing games, watching 
movies, reading, cooking, and spending time with family. I'd like to 
play less computer games, or rather, do some productive things this 
week, so I have some plans for coding practice and laying the 
foundations for the internship search. Most of all, though, I want to 
focus on spending time with family. 

It's hard to believe it's already 2017. Reflecting back into the past 
year, 2016 has been pretty great, from really getting into CS to the 
Chorale Trip to working at Juntos, going back to Austin as a family, 
and going on some of my first dates! :) I hope to make 2017 even 
better. I'll take some time to reflect on a few, focused resolutions for 
the year and how to accomplish them, maybe three. Of course, there 
are things I'm worried about, like finding a summer internship. But, I 
trust that if I work diligently, Heavenly Father will help me find work 
that is satisfying and fulfilling. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 29° SUNNY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 1, 2017 AT 6:43 PM 

Good Sabbath today. In the morning did some reflecting and 
planning. Church was good. A Ph.D candidate in classical studies 
discussed resolutions, and the Bishop's son, who's about to go on a 
mission, gave a talk. In Sunday School we discussed an intro to the 
Doctrine and Covenants, which was apparently approved in a church 
conference where elders went up to each revelation and signed their 
names endorsing it. In Priesthood we discussed president Hinkley 
and I mostly read the manual. After a lovely pasta lunch, I read 
President Uchtdorf's talk “Of Regrets and Resolutions.” I resolve: 

(1) To spend time with those I love and give my attention to them 
(2) To strive to reach my full potential as a disciple of Jesus Christ 
(3) To let myself be happy, no matter my circumstances 
Kent and Padre watched WHS's production of “Side By Side by 
Sondheim” and I checked my 
course schedule for next quarter to ensure that everything looks 
good. In the evening, we played a game of “Wits and Wagers” and 
many games of “Uno Attack” of which Kentre won about a bajilion 

and everyone else won once. Then we finished off the buche. .. 


I already noted my scripture study above. I was struck by both the 
great opportunities I have in life, being surrounded by family and 
friends, and the regrets that loom if I pass those opportunities by. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 23° CLEAR 

MONDAY, JANUARY 2, 2017 AT 5:19 AM 

Good day today. In the morning I played Stellaris, then as a family 
we went off to see La La Land, which I thought was mediocre. I was 
squirming in my seat by the end. It was supposed to revive the 
movie musical genre, and it had a lot of parallels to previous 
musicals, but I missed most of them. I also didn't particularly like the 
music, which sometimes looked dubbed in the show. Anyway, Kentre 
liked it. In the evening, we had potato soup with lovely homemade 
rosemary olive bread, courtesy of the Kentre. Since We were too full 
and tired for it yesterday, we had our chocolate fondue today, with 
angel food cake, strawberries, bananas, and marshmallows. Kent, 
Dad, and I played a game of Settlers of Catan. I had some lucky 
breaks at the beginning and ended up winning. Yay me. 
In scripture study, I learned that although faith is God won't prevent 
me from being wounded, it can preserve me from the destructive 
tendencies of the world. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 39° MIST AND FOG 

TUESDAY, JANUARY 3, 2017 AT 7:57 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, Kent left to go to New York on his 
mission of goodwill and theatre to Aunt Donna. Then Madre pressed 
me into service going to Plum Market and then, since we had a 
craving for pretzels with M&Ms and Hugs, we had to go to two more 
stores to get those (which Madre graciously made). In the evening, 
Padre and I went to get haircuts and I was shorn like a sheep. Then 
we had dinner of leftovers. After that, Madre wanted to play a game, 
so we got out “Catch Phrase.” She said she'd be there in 15 
minutes, but after an hour and a half, Padre and I gave up waiting 
and watched “Inequality for All,” a documentary about the causes 
and consequences of rising inequality in America. Lower top 
marginal tax rates, higher cost of education, deregulation, eroding 
unions, globalization and automation, along with a growing divide 
between productivity and wages (the former continued growing 
while the latter stagnated in the 1970s) all contributed to inequality, 
while In an effort to maintain their middle class standard of living, 
women entered the workforce, Americans worked longer hours and 
went into debt. Erosion of campaign finance laws (such as with 
Citizens United) allow the richest Americans to continue to get 
concessions from the government. Kind of depressing but an 
important message. I fell asleep near the end, so then I went up to 
bed. 
In scripture study, I learned that I must be a force of action to make 
good things happen in my life. 

MI-14 W, PLYMOUTH CHARTER TOWNSHIP, MI, UNITED STATES 

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017 AT 7:39 AM 

Good day today. In the morning (as soon as I got out of bed), I 
helped Madre take down Christmas decorations. We went down to 
Grand Traverse Pies for lunch, then went to see Moana, which a 
thought was a solid Disney movie. The music was good, very Lin 
Manuel-Miranda. Madre didn't think the tunes were as catchy as 
some of the other Disney movies, but I thought they were good, if 
not at easy to pick up and sing. In the afternoon, I played some Age 
of Wonders, and after dinner we had a game of Settlers of Catan, 
which I ended up winning (although Padre almost wouldn't play 
because we included the robber). That's about it. 
In scripture study, I learned that faith shouldn't be predicated on 
positive outcomes. In fact, faith is being willing to accept negative 
outcomes in following God's will. Sometimes it's hard or 
inconvenient. 

5118 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017 AT 7:52 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, Mom, Dad, and I went to the 
temple, which was a good experience. I was impressed by how 
Heavenly Father seemed to give Adam and Eve trials and 
oppositions for their sake, so He could bless them and they could 
learn good from evil. We had lunch at an Italian place afterwards, 
then returned home. I did some coding practice and played some 
games. After polishing off the last of the leftovers for dinner, we 
played another game of Settlers of Catan. This one was much closer, 
although I ended up pulling through with a win. 
In scripture study, I learned that we must be purified like Christ to 
abide the day of His coming. 

44.0044° N, 99.1708° W 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017 AT 7:56 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, Kent came home from New York 
and regaled us with tales of redeeming Donna's 25 pounds of coins 
and seeing Falsettos and The Great Comet, both of which seemed 
rather weird. We had lunch at Songbird cafe, then relaxed in the 
afternoon, when I played games and did coding practice. In the 
evening, I helped Kent make fried rice and chicken lettuce wraps for 
dinner. We had yet another game of Settlers, and from the 
beginning I could tell that I was in a poor position and would 
probably lose. (I may have been a little pouty about it because I was 
bored.) We then played Scattergories, which was shorter and I think 
more enjoyable. 
In scripture study, I learned that being focused on ourselves and self 
advancement can lead us to miss warning signs of big problems 
coming our way. It's important to look outside ourselves and humbly 
check in on our spiritual well-being often. 

SATURDAY, JANUARY 7, 2017 AT 8:38 PM 

Good day today. Played Pony Island in the morning, which was 
weird, but good. Should try some break days without video games 
sometime. 
Did a coding practice finding the biggest area in a graph. 
Zingerman's for lunch. 
Packed for California. It's hard to believe that school is staying again, 
but it's been a sufficiently long break. Mostly I'm concerned about 
the internship search, but I'm sure that if I work hard and seek 
Heavenly Father's inspiration, I'll find a positive outcome. 
Made baleadas for dinner. Read Time. Kent and Mom looked over 
my resume, then I sent it off to the Stanford computing forum's list. 
We all played one last round of Settlers, then I dissuaded everyone 
from another game, so we topped off the night with Apples to 
Apples. 
In scripture study, I learned that carnal comfort often breeds pride, 
so if everything's going well, I should take special care to remain 
humble and properly attribute that blessing to Heavenly Father and 
the many people who help me. 

5004 BIRKDALE DR, SCIO, MI, UNITED STATES • 11° CLEAR 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 8, 2017 AT 8:03 AM 

This was a fairly good week. I did keep up scripture study and prayer 
consistently, and I exercised most days. I also did some coding 
practice and made progress on my resume, which I'll work on 
posting and distributing this first week back. I spent a lot of time 
with family, which I mostly enjoyed, although I should have focused 
more on them and set aside time to brainstorm fun activities to do 
together, which I kind of regret. I'll make sure to do that before the 
next break, as well as set aside a few days when I don't play 
computer games, which I played too much of. It was good that we 
went to the temple, and I did a better job at keeping my thoughts 
clean this week, although I could still improve. When playing games, 
I want to choose male avatars whenever possible. I think getting 
busy with schoolwork will help with that as well. Looking forward, I 
want to practice put a lot of effort into preparing for the job search, 
with advice from Kentre. I missed the signup deadline for the 
practice coding interview partly because I feel like I hadn't done 
enough personal prep, but I'll keep my eye out for other 
opportunities and will consult with Kent often. I should also look into 
declaring CS. I think this will likely be a busy quarter with my current 
course load, the internship search, and being a research assistant, 
but I want to purposefully set aside time to spend with friends, date, 
and fulfill my callings. I'll take care of contacting people for home 
teaching this month. Sam, Andrew, and I should have a goal of 
visiting someone each week after church. I'd like to do more as a 
SoFo, maybe I should talk to Cisco and LaCona about baleada night 
or something, incorporating a bit of food, cooking, and fun. Of 
course, I'll keep scripture study, exercise, and institute going, 
although it's going to be tricky to get to Friday Forum because of 
class. Most of all, I should strive to be spiritually sensitive, clean, and 
do my Heavenly Father's will. Then it will all work out. 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 8, 2017 AT 8:36 PM 

Good day today, I guess. I woke up at 6:00 am, showered, and had a 
quick breakfast before hugging Mom goodbye and heading off to 
the airport with Padre and Kentre. After hugging Dad goodbye at 
the airport, Kent and I checked our bags and went through security 
to our gate and our flight back to California. I dozed during part of 
the flight, then did scripture study, updated my journal and 
Evernote, and read a bit of Adam Hochchild's Spain in our Hearts on 
Americans in the Spanish Civil War. We landed on time but SFO was 
clogged due to rain and high winds, so we waited about 40 minutes 
on the tarmac for our gate. This unfortunately made us get back to 
Stanford too late for me to go to church. Since the Lyft dropped us 
off at Idlewild, Kent and I made a scramble for lunch there, then 
Kent took me back to FroSoCo, where I unpacked. I then updated 
my todo list from my course schedule, watched a devotional with 
Elder and Sister Nelson, who discussed eternal laws and marriage, 
respectively. I updated my Handshake account, perused spring 
IntroSems (sadly, an interesting one on classical religion conflicts with 
161), looked at internship opportunities and emails, and began 
reading Cracking the Coding Interview, which I borrowed from Kent 
while at Idlewild. Anyway, that's the facts of the day. Now for the 
feelings. Like the start of lost quarters, I'm feeling a little anxious and 
sad. I'm anxious about new classes (Will my course load be too 
much?) and the internship search process (What will technical 
interviews be like? Will I be able to adequately prepare?) and sad to 
see the end of the break, and a little regretful that I didn't focus 
more on family. We did a lot together, but I would have liked to play 
computer games less and do family activities like going on a walk or 
some other planned thing more. It's strange. Sometimes while on 
break I just want to be left alone for a few minutes to read or play or 
whatever, but as soon as I leave, I miss my family and want to go 
back and worry about being lonely. I guess that just means I love 
them. I'm sure that once su get into the swing of things, I'll be too 
busy doing fulfilling work to even worry about my current feelings. 
It's weird. When I go to Michigan, it feels like home, but when I'm at 
Stanford, it also feels like home (certainly after the first few days 
back). I certainly moved a lot on my mission, but it's still weird to 
have this bifurcated experience. On the plus side, it means that in 
either place there are people I enjoy spending time around. On the 
minus side, that means in either place there are people I miss. Well, 
that's life. I guess I can just take the lessons learned and desires for 
improvement and to spend more time with people I care about, and 
invest them here at Stanford. Well, it should be an exciting quarter. I 
listened to quite a few talks today while unpacking, trying to inspire 
myself with hope for the future. The biggest takeaways were hat 
commitment to the gospel leads to happiness, I should let myself be 
happy, and, as I do my best, trust that Heavenly Father will help me 
with the rest. That's my prayer. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° RAIN 

MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017 AT 9:22 PM 


Good day today. Did my usual morning routine, getting muddy on 
my run, showering, reading scriptures, and having breakfast (with 
Connor, Peter, and Andrew). I then went to the bookstore to get a 
new folder, notebooks, and Psych 50 textbook (which is a new book, 
so I couldn't find it on textbook exchange). Then I headed to 142, 
which is held in Bishop Auditorium in Lathrop, the same place where 
147 was. Who should I find there but Ken and Raghav from our 
project group! The professor is the founder of VMWare, although 
he's not a terribly engaging lecturer. The class seems packed with 
relevant languages and concepts though. I have a ten minute break 
between that and 109, held in the same place, where I ran into Zac 
and discovered that we're taking all the same CS classes: 109, 124, 
and 142. 109 is taught by Mehran, who is engaging and amusing as 
always. I'll have to concentrate to get the material, as it's been a 
while since I've practiced probability, but I'm sure I'll get it with hard 
work. After a quick lunch at Stern, I met with Patrick to discuss our 
schedules for this quarter, which don't overlap much. It looks like I 
can come in on a few mornings for an hour, and the rest I'll do with 
MRI scans. After that, I went back and did some work, writing in class 
and final schedules (all four of my classes have finals, including one 

in Friday .. 
. At least they're spread out. I'm grateful that it's not like 
last Winter quarter when I thought I'd have all three of my finals on 
the same day.) I also did 109 reading, Psych 50 reading, and read 
more of Cracking the Coding Interview. It's a bit intimidating and 
probably written for people later in the process, but better prepare 
now than later. In the evening, I went to Family Home Evening, 
which was refreshing. I'd been feeling rather bummed about the end 
of break and intimidated by all the work before me, but it cheered 
me up. Josh talked about stepping off the hedonic treadmill and 
appreciating just how much we've been blessed. He talked about 
first eating food after being sick and loving the first few bites, but 
then the later ones feeling mediocre. He thinks that the “true” 
goodness of the food is indicated by those first few bites, and we 
should remember that. We also played two hilarious games: Ninja 
and Pterodactyl. 
In scripture study, I learned that, like the righteous Lamanites dealing 
with the Gadianton robbers, we do have power to root out evil from 
ourselves when we recognize it and work hard at removing it and 
becoming reconverted. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017 AT 9:54 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, I was woken up by Peter going to 
the shower and coming back, which I thought was strange, since I 
usually wake up before him. I check my clock and realized that it was 
almost 8:00! My 7:30 am alarm hadn't gone off because I 
accidentally set it to 7:30 pm. My bad. So I'm glad Peter woke me. 
No harm done. I had Psych in the morning, and the lecture seemed 
a lot more digestible than the reading. One of the people who works 
in my lab is going to be my section TA, which I find amusing. I 
grabbed a takeout lunch at Olives, then went to institute with 
Brother Hunt, which was fun, as always. Who else would geek out 
over Hearthstone before the start of class? (I also saw that he had 
Superbrothers: Sword and Sworcery on his iPad, which was 
awesome.) It seems like he really thought through feedback and 
wants to ensure we bring questions and discuss applications. In the 
afternoon, I had 124, which seems like an exciting class where I'll get 
to do lots of cool stuff, from Jeopardy to building a chatbot. In the 
evening, I watched President Obama's farewell address with a bunch 
of other FroSoCoans. It makes me sad to see him go, as he's the first 
president whose election I was really cognizant of. He gave a good 
speech, including one part, where he quoted Washington's farewell 
address about avoiding alienating parts of our country, that almost 
brought me to tears. It maybe a rough four years ahead, but Obama 
reminded me of my role in promoting democracy. 
In scripture study, I learned that as humans, we tend to pine for a 
past that never existed. We'd be much happier to focus on the real 
joys of the present. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° RAIN 

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017 AT 10:05 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, I had 142, where we talked briefly 
about HTML, in a vague, high level sense. After that, I had 109, 
where we went over things I'd seen in the reading, so I followed 
along pretty well. When I got to the problem set I got bogged down 
pretty quickly though, so I'll definitely have to go to working office 
hours. After lunch, I did homework and more homework, mostly 
readings. I feel like I'm going to have a lot of work with all these 
classes, so I hope I can grasp and apply the material well. I also got 
an email that I've been nominated for the Lunsford award for my 
PWR 2 presentation. That means that I give my presentation before a 
panel of judges. That's great on the one hand, but on the other, it 
means that I need to practice my presentation. Again. Oh well. Had 
Habla and a SoFo meeting in the evening. 
In scripture study, learned that God will lift me up when I endure 
adversity well. Just how long that takes though, I don't know. 

418 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017 AT 10:12 PM 

Good day today. Productive. In the morning, we discussed vision in 
Psych 50. Over lunch, we talked about the roots of the doctrine of 
work for the dead in institute. In the afternoon, we had a group work 
session in 124 where we did exercises with Unix text processing tools 
like tr and grep. I was able to get through it pretty well since I'd 
done the readings. More readings and homework in the evening. I 
did a quiz for 124 that required me to run a python program, then 
run the output on Unix tools, which meant that I needed to reinstall 
OpenAFS so I could copy the file into my AFS directory so I could 
access it from the corn machine I had to log into to use the Unix 
tools. I got 5/5 on the quiz though. I had dinner with Kent at Ricker, 
and told him my tales of woe and how death is imminent, and he 
told me that 109 wasn't that bad. (Then again, he'd taken Stats 116 
the year before 109, which is basically the same material, so I'm leery 
about the accuracy of these claims.) Oh well, I will survive. I guess 
when I tried more 109 problems tonight they weren't as bad. I also 
should send out job applications and declare. That's it. 

In scripture study, I learned that bad things are for my good. Yay. .. 


554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 45° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017 AT 10:47 PM 

Good day today. In the morning I went to 142 and we learned about 
CSS (and that there are many ways to position things, but not how to 
position them). We talked about probability in 109, mostly of equally 
likely events, where you take # of outcomes in event / total # of 
outcomes. It always seems so clear in class and so confusing on the 

homework. Unfortunately 109 makes me miss Friday Forum .. 
. In 
the afternoon, I had Psych 50 section, where the TA is in the lab I 
work in. Then I started work on the 142 assignment. After dinner, 
Connor and Andrew invited me and Peter over to play some Super 
Smash Brothers, so I derped around as Kerby for a while, which was 
fun. 
In scripture study, I learned that ordinances are efficacious because 
God, who had the authority, asks us to perform them that way. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 2017 AT 11:25 PM 


Good day today. Worked on 124 in the morning making RegExes to 
catch emails and phone numbers. Family call in the afternoon. Did 
some Psych and 109 reading. In the evening, celebrated Kent's 
birthday with him by going to the Cheesecake Factory. Read a bit of 
Spain in Our Hearts. 
In scripture study, I wondered why we can't be made perfect without 
our dead. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 15, 2017 AT 8:52 AM 

This week has been busy. I was sad to see the break end, and wish I 
had more time to spend with my family and was able to use it better. 
I'm also a bit stressed about the start of al of my classes and if I'll be 
able to handle it all. Mostly, I seem to be having a bit of trouble 
grasping some of the 109 problems, so I'll need to go to working 
office hours for those and put in extra work to understand how to 
apply the concepts to the problems. I'm also stressed about the 
internship application process, and I need to apply to more places 
and do more practice problems. Finally, this week I'll also need to 
practice my presentation for the Lunsford award panel. It's cool that I 
got nominated, but it's another thing on my plate. It seems like I 
have so much to do that I have little time or excuse to rest, although 
I felt a bit burned out this Saturday, which makes no sense because 
it's the first week of the quarter. So I'll have to work on balancing my 
workload and taking appropriate breaks. I did have some fun stuff 
this week, like going to FHE and Kentre's birthday dinner. I'll also 
need to prepare for the career fair this week, and put more thought 
into declaring CS. Spiritually, I feel like I did week this week. I read 
scriptures, contributed in institute, and prayed. I went to FHE and 
spent time with my Mormon friends. Which reminds me, I should 
contact Lizzie about getting together sometime. My notes during 
scripture study were a bit shallow, and I could have concentrated 
better during my prayers as well. I'd also like to do more as a 
fellowshipper and SoFo. I think the weekend of week 3 I can do the 
baleada thing, so I'll ask Hormazd who's on call that Saturday. I 
should also reach out to Andrew and Sam about visiting people on 
Sundays. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 39° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 15, 2017 AT 10:59 PM 

Good Sabbath today. I fasted today, because I missed fast Sunday 
last week and felt that I had a lot to fast about, from declaring my 
major to job interviews and help in classes. In church, Sam Good 
gave a nice talk about commandments and Sean Rico discussed 
giving good gifts, which he said is founded in empathy. Oh yes, Kent 
came by in the morning before church to pick up some stuff and 
open my birthday gift for him (a 5 minute breakfast sandwich 
cooker). In second hour, we had a separate meeting as LDS students 
to talk about missionary work. (Funnily enough, Amnah, Maya, and 
Sophia had asked me and Peter about attending church just this 
morning, so there are definitely people I can invite to do things.) 
After church, we had LDSSA family dinner at Ricker, which was fun. In 
the evening, I went to an LDSSA Recital, and it was cool to se 
everyone sing and play instruments awesomely. I kind of felt like I 
should have done something. Well, next time. 
In scripture study, I learned that one way we'll be able to “see God 
as He is” is by becoming like Him, so we can recognize Him in 
ourselves. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 45° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, JANUARY 16, 2017 AT 10:33 PM 


Good MLK Day today. Went on a hike with a bunch of other 
Mormons in the morning. Finished 142 assignment, worked on 124, 
and sent out a few job applications. Practiced my PWR presentation, 
reread my essay, and finished up some reading. Had dinner with 
LDSSA at Stern. Read some more of Spain in Our Hearts. I kind of 
feel burnt out, which is bizarre since I just came off break and today 
was a holiday. I want to relax and play but feel like I have no time to 
do so and would be guilty if I did. Oh well. 
Learned in scripture study that it's important to understand how we 
worship a personal God, and to know Him. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017 AT 11:15 PM 

Good day today. Went to lab in the morning. Patrick's bus was late, 
so we didn't have too much time. We discussed some more beast 
results and he asked me to look over a NIMH grant proposal. After 
that, I went to Psych, we we discussed facial recognition. In institute, 
we discussed the articles of faith, then we talked about the temple 
endowment, which was a really interesting discussion, one of the 
more enlightening discussions I've had about that. I then went to 
office hours, waited in a long queue, but only asked one question. 
Made progress though. In the afternoon, did more work. In the 
evening, it was Kent's cook at Hamm, so I had dinner with him and 
Kira, and they mostly talked about Kent's relationship drama. I then 
did more work, and looked up companies at the career fair. I think I 
might apply to Quora, but I need a cover letter. I still feel so 
unprepared for technical interviews. I also feel burnt out and tired by 
the prospect of my classes, job search etc. Well, I'm sure it will pass. 
In institute, I learned that ritual helps induce a leminal state, so it 
serves as a prompt and sit for us to have spiritual experiences. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017 AT 11:39 PM 

Good day today. Worked with Patrick in the morning, sharing my 
thoughts on the grant proposal he shared with me. Went to 142 
after that followed by 109. Felt like I got the Bayesian stuff pretty 
well. After lunch, went to the CS career fair and dropped my resume 
at a bunch of places. Curiously and rather serendipitously, while I 
was at the career fair, I got an email from Michael Gottlieb, the 
friend of Jeff Swindle who I'd emailed last year with no reply. He said 
that he's looking for an intern to do some data mining, which sounds 
like an intriguing opportunity. I emailed him back to OBTAIN MORE 
INFORMATION. I also went to CS 109 Office Hours and made more 
revisions to my PSet. In the evening, Habla was canceled, but I did 
help Kira briefly with her probability homework (after I'd apparently 
impressed her by explaining the answer to the Monty Hall 
problem… because we just talked about it in 109 today). 
In scripture study, I learned that when I labor with all my might, God 
can consecrate my experiences to make them holy. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° LIGHT RAIN 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017 AT 11:39 PM 

Good day today. Progress in various things. Had psych in the 
morning and learned about drift diffusion models for the third time. 
In institute, had interesting discussion about the King Follett sermon. 
I then went to the startup career fair and takes to lots of startups, a 
few of which were interesting. (Unfortunately, I reales that I also 
missed my meeting with Arik to talk about declaring, so I had to 
reschedule it). I was able to finish 109 (after checking it with Zac in 
the evening). I was able to finish most of my other homework, too, in 
time to play a bit of Civ VI. I started a new game as Russia (which I 
failed because I put my city in the tundra). Then I played as Arabia, 
and had a much better start. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017 AT 8:15 PM 

Good day today. In the morning I had 142 and learned very little 
about JavaScript. (I learned a lot more from reading the Mozilla 
introduction online.) After that we talked about independence in 
109, and I was able to follow along fairly well since I'd already seen 
most of the examples in the book. I then rushed off to Hume to give 
my presentation for the Lunsford Award nomination, which went very 
well. The audience was very attentive, even laughing at some of the 
more ironic parts. I couldn't have asked for better questions, one of 
which segued nicely into Merchants of Doubt, and the other was 
about motivation, which I'd already thought about answering. Truly a 
great blessing. After lunch at Arrillaga, where I chatted with Rose 
about fencing, I went to Psych section and learned about drift 
diffusion models… again. After class I immediately headed down for 
a talk Patrick had let me know about on the psychology of spaced 
practice. Who should show up five minutes after me but by TA 
Zeynep! In the evening, I had dinner with Andrew, Connor, and 
Peter. For the LDSSA movie night, I watched Star Wars: The Empire 
Strikes Back, with Peter, Andrew, Oscar, Angela, and Connor, which 
was fun. I did some JavaScript homework and finished off the night 
with some Civ VI. 
In scripture study, I read the Sermon in he Grove, which confused me 
more than the King Follett Sermon. It does seem that family is an 
important eternal organizational principle. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, JANUARY 21, 2017 AT 1:57 AM 

Good day today. Worked most of the day. Kent came over for dinner 
and family call. He asked me about dating Angela. I think I'd like to. I 
just need to commit to it so I don't let that time get taken by other 
things. Made lots of progress in work of many types. Got an email 
from a startup I talked to at the career fair about doing a phone 
screen with them. At least it will be good practice. Played some Civ 
VI and crushed Rome after they declared a surprise war against me. 
In scripture study, I learned that seeking for the things of a better 
world sometimes requires laying down the things of this one. You 
can't seek for everything simultaneously. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 22, 2017 AT 9:52 AM 

This week went well overall. I was able to be quite productive in my 
schoolwork and even eked out a little play time toward the end. In 
was quite proactive in exploring internships and I now have leads 
with a Mimax and Michael. (I should also finish my Quora cover 
letter.) Heavenly Father really blessed me in the Lunsford Award 
presentation too, so no matter what happens with that, it was a 
good experience. I was also able to spend time with friends, like 
going on the hike on Monday and watching Star Wars on Friday (the 
latter of which I'd say was the highlight of my week.) I was also able 
to see Kent twice, both for his cook at Hamm and on Saturday. As 
always, being busy helped me keep my thoughts clean. I was 
diligent in scripture study, although I could have written down better 
insights. I also could have been more focused in prayer, so I'll try 
being more verbal about it. There were some nights where I wasn't 
good with my journal, so I should shoot to go to bed maybe 15 
minutes earlier so I can properly write my thoughts and feelings and 
not just report events. (Speaking of which, I should probably back 
this up as a PDF.) I didn't do too much SoFo stuff this week, other 
than talking with Rose for a while. This coming week I'd like to do 
baleadas, so I should ask Hormazd who's on call on Saturday. I'd also 
like to do more as a fellowshipper and home teacher. Sam and I did 
try to contact JoMo last week to no avail. We should reach out to 
Merrell and Kea'a. I'll ask Peter and Andrew about availability for 
home teaching today as well. I've been thinking about it, and with 
some poking and prodding from Kent and Kira, I think I want to date 
Angela more. I really have enjoyed the things we've done together, I 
just haven't followed up sufficiently because life happens and I let 
my time be pulled away to other things. So, I'd have to commit to 
setting aside time to do things on a consistent basis, thinking about 
activities, etc. I'm willing to do that, I just need to follow through on 
that commitment. So, I'll be working on that this week, with a 
motivational goal that I won't play any computer games until after 
having gone on a date with Angela (or at the very least asking). So, 
that's definitely a goal to keep in mind. Well, sounds like it's going 
to be a busy week this week. Hope it's fun! 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 22, 2017 AT 11:22 PM 

Good Sabbath today. In the morning I did a bit of MixMax phone 
interview prep. At church, Kira spoke, giving a very RM talk on “Love 
is the motive, the Spirit is the key, and Christ is the way.” Kent told 
me that I sounded like that when I returned from my mission. I'd 
have to reread my old talk to see. I was reflecting on how my mission 
changed me today. There are a lot of both tangible and intangible 
effects, from teaching ESL (btw Johnny Young told me that's what 
he's majoring in! Double btw, Elder Black is engaged!!) to really 
reducing my stress in a lot of situations. After all, it can't compare 
with knocking on a stranger's door and telling them about God. 
Anyway, Sister Johnson gave a really good talk on remembering the 
“gentleness of Jesus” in the way He treated others. After sacrament 
meeting, we spent the entire rest of church on a special dating Q&A, 
where the men and women separated, the men answered questions 
the women had asked in a Google poll with the bishopric and the 
women did the same for them men with the bishoprics' wives, then 
the facilitators switched and we got the answers back. Overall, it 
exceeded my (admittedly low) expectations. It seems like the big 
themes are that everyone would benefit from more open 
communication and generally freaking out less and that people 
generally want to date more. It seems like a strange problem where 
people of both sexes have similar fears and desires but they don't 
align. Anyway, after that, I had dinner with Kent, debriefed the 
meeting and asked “What is love?” (seriously, we discussed romantic 
and companionate love). I then implemented a Kneser-Ney 
smoothing algorithm for my spell check that got me up to 19% 
accuracy! (The corpus is small and or edit distance computation is 
simplistic, otherwise it would be better.) 
In scripture study, I learned that the divine feminine power of 
creation is one that pertains especially to women. I think that 
includes not just bearing and raising children but creating good in 
the world. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017 AT 12:23 AM 

Good day today. Had 142 in the morning and learned a smidge 
more JavaScript. Learned about conditional independence and 
random variables in 109. My MixMax Tech Screen got rescheduled 
for tomorrow, which I'm a bit miffed about because I'd rather have it 
over with. Went to FHE where we played Super Smash Brothers (or 
rather the men did. The gender divide over video games is such an 
interesting phenomenon. I know there are cultural factors that 
contribute to it, but I wonder what else does…) Left Habla early due 
to no tutee. Learned about questioning free will in neuroscience 
experiments. 
In scripture study, learned that Nephi was proactively obedient in not 
even returning home before he began to preach. He knew what 
needed to be done and made it happen. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017 AT 11:17 PM 

Good day today. Went to Psych in the morning and we discussed 
motor control. One of the CAs got zapped with TMS in his motor 
cortex, making his hand twitch, which was cool. In Institute, we had a 
very good discussion about women in the church. Last week's Friday 
Forum had been given by a Mormon feminist (which I'm really 
bummed to have missed out on due to class), which primed 
everyone's thoughts. Certainly everyone who participated in the 
discussion was very strongly in favor of an expanded role for women 
in church, and didn't see why they couldn't hold the priesthood, 
participate in blessings, etc. In fact, women could and did give 
blessings in the early church (just not by the authority of the 
Melchizedek priesthood). Like many modern church policies that I 
find questionable (like the attitude toward homosexuality), this 
changed in the early 20th century when the church assimilated into 
larger conservative American society, specifically ultraconservative 
American Christianity. This leads me to think that many of these 
practices are, quite literally, “the commandments of men” and not of 
God. I think there is much we need to do as a church to change that 
both culturally and institutionally. I also read a fascinating piece 
called “Dear Mormon Man, tell me what you would do.” which 
imagined a society and church where the role of men and women 
were switched. It helped me see a more complete picture of the 
challenges facing women in the church, from ones I'd noticed (like 
the silence of Eve) to others that I hadn't (like women's requests to 
local leaders going unanswered). Anyway, facing and very important 
stuff that I want to do more about. In the afternoon, I had my Tech 
Screen which went fine. Disaster was averted several times: ten 
minutes before the call started, my start menu froze, so I had to 
restart my computer. After the video call started, my interviewer 
couldn't hear me, so he eventually just called me on my cell phone 
for audio. Finally, when I tried to download the project, there was a 
dependency I was missing, so I had to get that too. Anyway, I did 
alright on the coding question, getting to answers, although not the 
most elegant ones. I was definitely affected by nerves. Oh well, 
Good to get the experience anyway. After going to 124 group work 
and doing n-gram stuff, did homework, had dinner, and went to 
inaugural SAY meeting, which was fun. 
I think I've already said quite a. It about women in the church above. 
I read talks about the subject in the morning, which I think treat it 
rather dismissively. I think that, like any other issues in the church 

(e.x. Blacks and the priesthood), we need enough people asking the 
right questions before change will occur. 
554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 45° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017 AT 11:28 PM 

Good day today. In the morning had 142 lecture on JavaScript IV: 
The Return of the Java. (I can't believe that we've spent four lectures 
on this and learned so little. Luckily there's the Internet.) Had 109 as 
well, then met with Arik about declaring CS and he gave an 
enthusiastic go-ahead. I'd like to ask Jennifer Widom to be my 
advisor, but she's on sabbatical this academic year. I still think I can 
do it, as I don't anticipate major academic crises before June. Did a 
bunch of homework and reading, watched a smidge of SNL and read 
a bit of TIME (the latest issue for some reason just displays page 
images instead of being a real app, which is frustrating). Went to 
Habla in the evening and brainstormed activities and how to get 
past the New Year's slump (which has been ubiquitous in every ESL 
class I've ever been in. Also, president Trump had been doing 
nightmarish things: gagging the EPA, promising a border wall, 
freezing refugees and visas from the Middle East, attacking NAFTA, 
pulling out of the TPP. It's worse that I imagined. I want to stand up 
against it. But what can I do? 
In scripture study, I learned about celestial marriage (although 
Section 132 verse 1 claims that it will explain polygamy in the Old 
Testament, but doesn't as far as I can tell.) I definitely think that the 
idea of being with the people you love forever is one of the most 
natural and intuitive parts of the gospel though. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 45° PARTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017 AT 11:33 PM 

Good day today. Had lab in the morning and discussed a paper with 
Patrick that he's reviewing. Had psych 50, and in institute we read an 
interesting paper by a Mormon theologian on eternal marriage as 
embodying a fundamental truth about gender, which I wasn't sure I 
completely agreed with. Discussed sentiment analysis in 124. Did 
homework. Had dinner with Erica and Andrew for home teaching, 
then Maddie, Brickelle, and Alejandra showed up and it became a 
giant Bachelor gossip hour. Went to crossing the line in the evening. 
It was a good experience to understand where people are coming 
from, and to be reminded how fortunate I am in so many ways. 
In scripture study, I learned that I should minimize personal demands 
and maximize selflessness to show people that I care about them. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, JANUARY 28, 2017 AT 12:21 AM 

Good day today. Began to go through code pipeline with Patrick. 
Learned more about JavaScript (but not what I needed for the 
assignment, of course. No talk of the DOM.) learned about Poisson 
variables in 109. (Incidentally, Mehran compared them to raisin cake, 
and we had raisin cake for dessert at Ricker today. Clearly there was 
some convergence there.) I grabbed lunch from Subway with 
Andrew, as we both have 12:50 classes and this miss Friday Forum. 
In Psych Section, we had a really cool activity where Zeynep took a 
cockroach and knocked it out by putting it in an ice water bath, then 
removed one of its legs (they grow back), stuck the legs with 
electrodes, and measured action potentials, which fired when you 
touched or moved the leg. (In fact, if you hooked up the electrodes 
to an iPhone and played high-amplitude music, you could get the 
leg to dance from the electrical stimulation. Really fascinating. We 
also had a 20 minute discussion on the ethics of animal 
experimentation and whether cockroaches could feel pain 
(apparently nobody knows). We had one quite opinionated advocate 
for the roach in our discussion group (who incidentally is also vegan) 
and who left the room for the dancing part. (Hey, no shame there.) 
Personally, the irony wasn't lost on my that this cockroach was 
bought from a pet site, so his alternative life outcome would have 
been to be eaten alive by some lizard. So I claim this is more 
humane. Anyway, did work in the afternoon and tried to get this 
Naïve Bayes sentiment classifier working for 124. Alas, it remains 
mysteriously aloof. Since it's Holocaust Remembrance Day, I went to 
a FroSoCo activity where we looked through some of the online 
exhibits from the Holocaust Museum in D.C. and discussed out 
reactions. Rebecca, one of the students there, is a Germany history 
major, so she had some really interesting observations. 
In scripture study, I learned that bottom-up change can happen. It 
was the people who asked their leaders to have Nephi pray for 
them. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 29, 2017 AT 12:05 AM 

Good day today. Did lots of work. In family call, learned that 
someone had hit Mom in the head, giving her a concussion. (Very 
strange, we think it may have been a hate crime since she was 
wearing a scarf that may had looked like a hijab. Obviously Donald 
Trump's fault. It's been reported to the police, so hopefully there's 
footage of the guy.) Caught a ride with Jared to Stake Conference, 
which was good. We talked about our shared love of baleadas on 
the way back. 
In scripture study, learned that I should avoid becoming unbalanced 
and putting my heart on riches. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, JANUARY 29, 2017 AT 9:50 AM 

This was a good week overall. Pretty busy and consumed with work, 
but I think I was able to make good progress on everything. I did 
well on my 109, 124, and 142 homework, which is good. I need to 
be more on top of 109 Office Hours though, since I missed them for 
this most recent PSet and will have to muddle through the last 
problems on my own. I'm glad I was able to do a phone screen to 
get practice, even if it didn't go that great. At least I'm pursuing 
leads from a lot more companies than I did last year. Spiritually, I 
think institute was a real high point this week. I'm glad that we could 
take some time to reflect on the status of women in the church and 
that there's a great desire for change. I'm glad that I asked Mom 
what her favorite scripture was a year and a half ago so I can go back 
to 2 Nephi 26:25-27 in discussions like this and be reminded that 
God is not a respecter of persons. I feel like I've seen a lot of 
injustice this week, from reflecting on “Tell Me Mormon Man, What 
Would You Do?” to Trump's freeze on immigration and refugees to 
my mom getting assaulted because she wore a scarf that looked like 
a hijab (which is the most logical explanation I can see for what 
happened). It makes me angry and it makes me want to do 
something, but I don't know what. I have little time or money, and 
I've never considered myself much of an activist, but these past few 
months, I've felt pushed in that direction. I want to somehow be able 
to stand up and say, “This is not okay! This is not our country! This is 
not what we stand for!” I do feel that there are many disparate 
elements feeling similarly, from the scientists concerned with Trump 
muzzling the EPA to the millions of immigrants throughout the 
country. But it seems like we don't have anything or anyone to rally 
around, other than our common opposition. Anyway, back to 
personal life. I feel like our institute discussions were very 
enlightening, although I can pay more attention in my preparatory 
scripture study. I also want to implement the council from Stake 
Conference to pray both to know that God is my Father and to know 
my standing before Him. This week has been productive, but I wish 
I'd done more fun stuff. I did enjoy the discussion we had about the 
Holocaust and Nazi Germany for International Holocaust 
Remembrance Day. Besides that, I just read a bit. This week, I'm 
looking forward to asking Angela on a date and doing this baleada 
thing for FroSoCo. I need to do a little more planning/logistics for 
both of those events though, so I'll try to get that done tonight. 

1105-1107 VALPARAISO AVE, MENLO PARK, CA, UNITED STATES 

MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017 AT 11:59 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, I went to CS 142, where we had 
our sixth lecture on JavaScript. I've started naming them after Star 
Wars episodes, so this one was “JavaScript VI: A New DOM.” So 
yeah, not the most useful stuff, but at least there's some helpful stuff 
in them. We discussed continuous probability distributions in 109, 
and at first I was like, “Aaaaaah! Integrals! I haven't done those in 
five years!” But then it wasn't that bad. In the afternoon, I started 
109, watched some 124 lectures on Querying Text, and then went to 
a 142 section in hopes of getting useful info. So, last week, I'd felt 
prompted that I should go to the section 20 minutes after it started. I 
wandered the building for half an hour only to find an empty room. I 
didn't really need the section, but I thought it was weird that I'd have 
a strong prompting for such a fruitless search. This week, I actually 
did need to go to section (which are optional) since they hadn't 
taught us half of what we needed on the homework. I left 15 minutes 
early and went to the same room (much faster this time), only to find 
it unoccupied. It was hen hat I realized that I was in the wrong 
building! I'd been misreading my map the whole time. Luckily the 
actual building was close, and I was able to get into the real room 
one minute before section started. Had I not had the experience of 
trying unsuccessfully to find he incorrect room last week, I don't think 
I would have made it to this week's section. It just goes to show that 
it's hard to predict why you have a prompting or its ultimate effects. 
Anyway, after that, I wanted to ask Angela out to have dinner on 
Saturday. I tried calling her, but there was no answer, so I texted her 
asking about it. But, I didn't hear anything back. I went to dinner, 
and then FHE, where who should walk in but Angela! Commence me 
stewing and wondering, “Did she get my message? What is she 
thinking? What if there's some reason she didn't respond? How can I 
ensure that this isn't awkward?” Etc etc. After FHE, I linger a bit to 
talk with her, and luckily, so does she. Paige Muhlstein also sticks 
around, and we all strike up a conversation about different political 
perspectives, gay marriage and abortion, Hillbilly Elegy, The 
Righteous Mind, and what religious liberty means practically and 
legally. Fascinating stuff. Our talk lasts an hour and a half, and 
chatting casually helps me return to normalcy from my state or semi-
nervous breakdown. One again, fortuitously Paige heads out first, 
and Angela and I are left alone as we leave together. I ask her if 
she'd seen my message (She hadn't.) and then if she'd like to go out 
to dinner on Saturday and she said yes!! Oh fradjous day! So yes, it 
ended up all working out quite nicely and about as naturally as it 
could have, and I'm excited for Saturday! So that's the height point 
of the day. In other news, I scheduled a phone screen with DocSend 
for Wednesday and Jennifer Widom agreed to be my major advisor, 
so things are moving along. 
In scripture study, I read about polygamy in the Doctrine and 
Covenants, in Gospel Topics, and in Wikipedia for different 
perspectives. I still find it to be quite a conundrum, although it does 
have some positive aspects that I hadn't considered as much (higher 
birth rate in a place where there's high child mortality and many 
people died crossing the plains, and a reduction in poverty per 
capita as poorer women were interested into families, a sort of 
distributed welfare system). Not that everything was peachy keeny 
obviously. Polygamy also facilitated real abuse, rape, and broken 
family dynamics. I think part of that was because it was introduced in 
secrecy, when people first began practicing it, they interpreted it 
however they wanted, in contrast to the much stricter version laid 
out in D&C 132, which says roughly that polygamy is just like 
monogamous marriages with the same chastity commitments, 
except there's multiple wives. Anyway, it's late, so time to sleepy 
sleep. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017 AT 11:04 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, I went to lab and Patrick talked to 
me about reproducible neuroscience, p-hacking, and multiple 
testing correction. In Psych 50, we discussed the brain's energy 
consumption and how that lets us measure BOLD signals in fMRI. It's 
so fascinating just how much goes into making the brain work as a 
system. In institute, we discussed polygamy. One interesting point 
that came up was that it was apparently viewed by Joseph and most 
others who adopted it as a sort of Abrahamic trial: both 
counterintuitive and a test of the most faithful. It seems like we just 
don't have a lot of documentation about what happened then, and 
there are many ways to interpret it. You could claim that it was just 
Joseph Smith trying to gratify his sexual desires and cover up an 
affair, and that's a totally reasonable view. You could also say that 
Joseph and most of the others who practiced polygamy primarily 
saw this as a religious, rather than sexual pursuit. Still, it's a very 
strange thing. Anyway, in the afternoon, we did a group activity with 
Naïve Bayes in 124, I practiced a bit for the DocSend Tech Screen 
tomorrow, and basically finished 142 after trying many ways to 
register a click. Now I can make a calendar (which includes non-trivial 
calculations for changing months and laying out days of the week). I 
went to SAY in the evening, and read many mediocre stories and a 
few good ones. 
In scripture study, Read about polygamy, as mentioned above. One 
thought I had was that, just like “Mormon bashing” was likely a 
popular political tactic in the late 1800's, so “Muslim bashing” is 
today. We should stand up for their religious liberty. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° MOSTLY CLEAR 

February 2017 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017 AT 12:16 AM 

Good day today. Busy. Went to lab in the morning and discussed 
another error in the regresaros that Patrick found. Discussed more 
DOM stuff and events in 142. Learned about the Z-score and normal 
distribution more in depth in 109, and it was interesting to see where 
subtracting the mean and dividing by the standard deviation comes 
from. Did homework in the afternoon and some coding practice, 
making a beautiful (if I do say so myself) implementation of an 
algorithm to fill all rows and columns of a matrix with 0 if that 
row/column contained zero. Had my phone interview with DocSend, 
which went reasonably well. The first question was on finding the 
intersection of two arrays, and at first I applied the algorithm I'd just 
watched for a 124 video, but it only works on sorted arrays (but is 
more space efficient). I was then inspired to find a simple O(N) 
solution. The second question was on unrolling nested arrays and I 
think I got it fairly well. So, better than MixMax though not ideal. 
We'll see what comes of it. Went to Habla in the evening and was 
paired with a student (and another tutor) for the night. Yay! I also 
heard that Nicolas may be able to come if he can get transport. Oh 
yes, I also began organizing the baleada cooking fest. 
In scripture study, I read more about polygamy and the Manifesto. I 
also did a midweek check-in and decided that I need to be aware of 
scheduling the time for important things first, then letting other 
things like homework flow around it. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017 AT 12:18 AM 

Buen día hoy. En la mañana, fui a psicología y hablamos de varios 
medios de probar las funciones del cortico prefrontal y también de 
cómo en realidad, no sabemos mucho sobre esta área. En el 
instituto, hablamos más de la poligamia, incluso su fin prolongado 
con los dos manifestos. Creo que es entendible que una práctica 
que fue tan importante en las vidas de los primeros santos que fue 
difícil para ellos para dejarlo. Bueno. Después del instituto, tomé el 
carro de Kent y fui a la tienda Mi Pueblo para conseguir ingredientes 
para las baleadas. (Por eso estoy escribiendo en español. Disculpas 
a los lectores futuros.) Desafortunadamente, no tuvieron ni manteca 
ni queso hondureño, así que, tuve que comprar queso salvadoreño y 
crema centroamericano. Bueno, bastante cerca para la obra del 
gobierno. Al regresar a ZAP, donde iba a estacionar el carro, por 
alguna razón, el Google Maps puso mi pin al azar en un lugar en 
Palo Alto del este, así que tuve que corregirlo dos veces. Pero, todo 
terminó bien. El resto del tarde, trabajaba, y para la cena, me reuní 
con Sam, Andrew Gonzales, y Brickelle para hablar de la obra del 
comité de hermanamiento. Andrew tuvo una idea excelente que 
deberíamos tener alguna cosita (como un peluche) que rendimos a 
un miembro del LDSSA cada semana y que la persona toma fotos 
con eso durante la semana y las pone en el GroupMe. ¿Que 
divertido, no? Terminé el día con más trabajo, aunque sí leí un poco 
de “España en Nuestros Corazones” que es un poco triste porque 
sabe que Franco va a ganar. 
En el estudio de las escrituras, me pregunté cómo entendemos la 
idea que el profeta es falible pero, según el Presidente Woodruff, 
nunca desviará la iglesia. Una cosa que dijo el hermano Hunt es que 
se podría entender que el profeta no corromperá la doctrina de la 
iglesia, aunque algunas veces puede equivocarse con respeto a la 
política. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2017 AT 12:43 AM 

Good day today. Busy. Had 142 and 109 in the morning. 
(Differentiation by parts, AAAAAH! I'm sure it will turn out fine.) Went 
to Psych Section and learned about different brain mapping and 
measurement techniques. In the afternoon, ended up helping 
Sophia debug some of her 107 code, so I had to drag back how 
cvector worked from the depths of my memory. I think I was helpful 
though. In the evening, I went to the warm and fuzzy make-a-thon 
hosted by the Catholic student group as part of the ongoing 
Interfaith Week. I worked with some others to make fleece blankets 
by cutting fringes into two equally sized pieces of fleece and tying 
them together. Quite fun. After that, even later in the evening, I 
hosted a FroSoCook activity where I showed a group of people how 
to make baleadas. My small but brave band of six (others drifted in 
and out too) we able to make quite a tasty batch. (Despite having 
limited utensils, including no cutting board to roll the dough out on. 
I made do with a paper bag. Actually, half the time I make these I'm 
missing a key utensil, so I've used glasses for rolling pins, water 
bottles for measuring cups, an 8x8 pan for a mixing bowl, and now a 
paper bag for a cutting board.) They still tasted delicious, and Avoy, 
one of the participants, came up and thanked me afterwards, saying 
that he was looking forward to the next one. Maybe I will have to do 
papusas… Anyway, I finished off the night by reading “The Coddling 
of the American Mind”, a concerning but cogent column criticizing 
campus conversation's correctness climate co-authored by Jonathan 
Haidt, whose book The Righteous Mind I really enjoyed. 
In scripture study, I reviewed my old study notes as I tried to think of 
a question for next institute's Q&A. It was interesting to see the sorts 
of things I was concerned about at the time and recurring themes in 
my notes. I was reminded that I should ask for revelation to be 
inspired as to how to reach out to and understand others. 
Tomorrow I'll be having dinner with Angela. I'm so excited! 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2017 AT 12:17 AM 

Very good day today. Also very busy. In the morning, I went to the 
Interfaith Harmony week presentation at MemChu, where around ten 
different groups shared aspects of their faith through music, 
discourse, and other creative expressions. (For example, Hormazd 
and the Zoroastrians did a “game show” format, which was pretty 
funny.) Some takeaways: You can quibble about doctrine, rules, and 
the nature of God, but at the end of the day, most religions promote 
very similar day-to-day actions: study, self-examination, good deeds, 
and communication with God. Also, I was surprised by how many 
groups expressed very progressive goals, from eliminating 
discrimination based on gender, race, etc., to promoting a “One 
World” unity. Part of that must come from the campus culture here, 
but it was good to be reminded that, in many ways, the tenants of 
religion are quite progressive (including, I would claim, the LDS 
faith). We just don't necessarily see them that way. After the 
program, I grabbed a quick lunch and called my family, with Kent 
coming over because he was parking the car by FroSoCo. I did some 
homework in the afternoon (although I can tell that I'm going to be 
swamped this week, as I also need to prepare for my three midterms 
next week, so I'll just have to go hard in the paint.) In the evening, I 
went with Angela to dinner at Pastis, which was fun. We talked about 
a whole range of different things, from our majors to cooking to what 
a liberal arts education is to effective protest to singing to the Hearth 
to our parents' jobs. I learned that Angela chose to go the biology 
pre-med path because she really enjoyed all of her biology classes 
but realized that she really wanted to apply it rather than live in 
academia. I also learned some things about myself. I would like to 
be a better storyteller. I felt like the stories I shared with Angela 
sometimes fell felt, partially because some of them were 
secondhand (like when she asked about my Mom's job, I had to 
reconstruct the Herb Hansen story). I also would like to be more self-
reflective. I feel that sometimes when people ask me about why I'm 
in a lab or my future plans, I don't have great answers (subtext: 
because I don't know what I'm doing with my life). Anyway, after 
dinner and at Angela's suggestion we both went over to see a panel 
at the law school by three Mormon women who'd clerked for 
Supreme Court justices, which was fascinating. Makes me want to 
listen to “More Perfect.” Right after I finish “The Wise Men.” We 
chatted with some of the other Mormons afterwards, then got back 
around 9:45. (From leaving at 5:30, that's quite a while.) I also set up 
next Saturday with Angela to make baleadas with her with the rest of 
the ingredients from last night. Yay! So it was a fun night without too 
many moments of awkwardness (I hope.) I could write all about my 
insecurities and how I don't know whether or not Angela likes me or 
is just being nice or her thoughts at all and how I feel like she totally 
outclasses me and just being with her for four hours made me want 
to be a better person, but it's late, and I'm tired, so you'll have to 
wait to hear that until later. 
In scripture study, I learned that I should fellowship like the four 
people who carried the man sick of the palsy: creatively and 
dismantling obstacles as I go. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2017 AT 9:51 AM 

Whew! This week was a busy one, but really enjoyable. In contrast to 
last weekend where I just did homework and went to Stake 
Conference, this weekend was full of fun things. I went to the Warm 
and Fuzzy Make-a-Thon and did my FroSoCook: Baleadas on Friday, 
and on Saturday, I went to the Interfaith Harmony presentation, had 
dinner with Angela, and went with her to the panel of female 
Mormon lawyers. So, lots of enjoyable things, which was a nice 
swing of the pendulum from last weekend. Given the amount of 
work I have coming up, I won't be able to do the same next 
weekend, but I can follow the strategy of picking a few fun activities 
I'm committed to and preserving that time against the hungry 
hordes of homework. Speaking of which, next week I have three 
midterms, so to ensure adequate performance and sanity, I'm going 
to study hard for those this week. Because it's so much material, I'm 
going to do some planning for what to study when so I can 
appropriately stagger my learning. (Spaced learning is good!) The 
order is Psych 50, 142, and 109, so that thankfully gives me the most 
time to study for what I anticipate will be the hardest. I got quite a 
bit of sleep this last week, which is good, but this coming week, I'm 
probably going to push my bedtime back an hour so I can ensure 
sufficient study time. I'm also going to table a few job applications 
things for later, so I'll probably just do my Quora cover letter. In 
general, I just want to pare down nonessentials this week. (Ex. I can 
probably stay at SAY for just an hour). Anyway, as far as spiritual 
matters go, I feel like I was engaged with my study this week. I 
learned a lot about plural marriage and gained a more nuanced 
understanding of its controversial parts (Joseph Smith's many, many 
wives, and the association with the practice of “spiritual wifery”) as 
well as how it was good for the saints in some ways (as an Abrahamic 
trial that both gave them a collective identity and bound them to 
God, as a system for social support and poverty reduction in a 
frontier land with little government safety net, and yes, as a way to 
bear children). At the end of the day, it's still strange to me, but if 
you consider the larger context on non-Western cultures, it's not an 
abnormal practice. (I'm tempted to make an analogy to hot dogs: 
what some people love is icky to others. But I won't.) So I felt that, as 
well as reviewing previous study notes, livened up study. In my 
prayers this week, I feel like I did a better job praying for others, 
although tu I could do so more specifically. Which reminds me, I 
should set up a time to home teach this week with Josh or 
somebody. And now my thoughts bring me to Angela (as they've 
done constantly this week). I'm really glad that she accepted my 
invitation to go out to dinner and that we had a good time. I 
enjoyed it, but I don't know her feelings about it. In the one hand, 
she did accept the invitation, and volunteered that we both go to 
the panel and was willing to make baleadas next Saturday, so those 
were encouraging signs. But maybe she's just being nice, or friendly, 
or whatever, as there were, as well, some awkward pauses and 
moments of disconnect, but a lot of laughter and sharing personal 
experiences as well. So, I guess I have no scale to calibrate it 
against. Boiled down to their simples components, my thoughts are: 
I like Angela, and I like spending time with her. If she likes spending 
time with me, then I want to do that more often. If she doesn't, then 
I feel like it would be selfish to impinge upon her time. Finally, I feel 
that I'd like to be more genuinely me. Of course, the trouble is that 
I'm still deciding who I am and, of course, trying to improve myself, 
so the concept of “me” is fluid. But I would like to be more 
vulnerable in what I share, and, as appropriate, not try to put up a 
facade that I know what I'm doing with my life. To be clear, it's not 
like I'm lost. I have clear high level goals. I want to graduate with a 
degree in computer science, and likely get a master's as well. I want 
to work in a field where I can use CS and apply principles of 
cognitive science to help people make better decisions. All I really 
want out of work is that I enjoy it, that I have a positive social impact, 
and that I can support a family. Speaking of which, one of my other 
long-term goals is to have a family. So yeah, those are my life goals 
from 10,000 feet. There are lots of ways that those can be fulfilled 
(which is a good thing), but that also means I don't quite know my 
path forward, and that's okay, and I should be appropriately open 
about that. Anyway, I'm rambling now, but I do think that I would like 
to be more genuine and vulnerable in my relationships, and to live a 

more reflective, examined life. No biggie. .. 


554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2017 AT 11:43 PM 

Good Fast Sunday today. My fast was good, although not terribly 
specific. Inspired by what I'd hear at the lawyer's panel last night, I 
fasted to be able to focus on the things that are most important, and 
the be strengthened to achieve those things, especially on those 
points where I am weak. I guess I did get some inspiration though, 
as at the end of the fast, I felt like schoolwork, finding a job, and 
relationships were what my priorities boil down to. So I'm going to 
focus on those and pray for strength in those areas, and the rest I 
can pare down or let fill my remaining time. Anyway, I did some 
psych reading in the morning and worked on 124 (and the function 
I'd been banging my head against for an hour last night I was able to 
write in five minutes. It's still a tad funky, but better.) I went to 
church, where it was fast and testimony meeting, and people shared 
good thoughts. I took copious notes, none of which I currently 
remember. After church, I went to a SoFo meeting over dinner, and 
we discussed accomplishments and goals. I'd like to reach out more 
to those on the fringes of my hallway, who I don't know as well and 
who perhaps don't come to activities as much. In fact, I should pray 
for the people in my hall more. I didn't do any fellowshipping visit 
today, so I should do one this coming week. After dinner, I did 
homework and made lots of progress. I finished the 124 assignment 
and quiz, and the Psych reading, and did two more 109 problems. I 
do feel like I was inspired in my work today, after investing the rest of 
my weekend in worthy activities. After correcting syntax errors, my 
code on most of the 124 assignment parts worked the first time. 
That never happens. Speaking of code, heard back from MixMax 
that I'm not advancing with them, which isn't terrible surprising. Just 
better send out feelers elsewhere. Oh yes, also wrote my Evernote. 
That's it. 
In scripture study, I spent a lot of time reflecting, which is all 
documented in the Sunday morning entry. I was reminded that the 
weakness of my words and works can be made strong. Sometimes I 
do feel like my words are week, whether it's stumbling through a 
technical interview or not having engaging stories to share on a 
date. But I know that I can be inspired to be made strong. I've seen 
it on my mission when the Spanish just flowed even though I was still 
learning the language. I've seen it on tests where answers and 
approaches just come to me sometimes. So, I trust that as I focus on 
those things that really matter, I'll be strengthened to accomplish 
them in a way I'm satisfied with. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017 AT 12:54 AM 

It's late so I'll be brief. Good day today. Had 142 and 109. Heard 
back from DocSend that they're advancing me to a two hour (eek!) 
phone interview on Thursday. Well, at least they're interested. Also, 
Kent discovered that Dante's brother works at DocSend. Say what?! 
It's a small world. In the evening, I went to 142 Section, which was 
marginally helpful, and made progress on the project (probably 
played with the cosmetics too much). I also had dinner with Kent, 
where I freaked about life, asked about studying for my interview 
and 142, and dating Angela. He suggested that I also talk to Kira 
about the latter. Lots on my plate. I'm just going to have to cycle 
through it all. I feel like I'm in a strategy game and have several 
advancing armies coming at me in short succession, and I want to 
deploy my limited forces so I can hold my ground as much as I can, 
and forge new alliances. It's going to require a careful balance of 
preparation proportional to the challenge of each, as well as 
discipline to prevent distractions. That's complicated by some wild 
cards where an don't know the enemy's strength well (I.e. the 142 
test.) anyway, time to apply some strategos. Also went to Habla but 
no one there because rain, so left early. 
In scripture study, reflected on questions for institute, like how to 
approach the way the church adopted social conservatism when it 
went mainstream. Now time for bed. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° LIGHT RAIN 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017 AT 12:32 AM 

Good day today. Lab in the morning, then Psych (where I was very 
sleepy), and institute, where we discussed questions people had (see 
notes in Gospel Library). Also went to 124 group work, where we did 
stuff on information retrieval. Did homework. In the evening, 
watched sort of the Ted Cruz vs. Bernie Sanders debate on 
Obamacare. Cruz said that govt is the root of all evil and if we take it 
away, healthcare will be happy happy land. Sanders said insurance 
companies are the root of all evil and that we need a single payer 
system. (If we take a step back and consider what insurance is on a 
macro-level, it's basically wealth redistribution from the healthy to 
the unhealthy. Given that we tend to charge government with that 
sort of redistribution, it would be logical for them to do so with 
health care as well.) Also went to SAY and read stories. This evening 
was frustrating because I spent several hours redoing 109 and 124 
things where I'd made reasonable assumptions and gotten correct 
answers, but after seeking further info, it turns out that I was 
supposed to solve the problem in a different way. Grrr. Oh well, 
more practice. 

In scripture study, I learned not to put time limits on God's blessings. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017 AT 12:34 AM 

Good day today. Had lab, 142 (sleepy) and 109 in the morning. Did 
an MRI scan with Zeynep, which was mildly stressful for her, and less 
so for me, since I know so little. I was reminded of a lot, and 
hopefully can continue learning. At least we completed all the tests. 
Home taught Catherine with Peter over dinner. It's crazy to think that 
she and so many others will be graduating soon. Well, better enjoy 
time with them while I can. Finished 124, did coding practice, 
worked on 109, reviews Psych. (I really need to get on 142 review.) 
Didn't have to go to Habla tonight, so I went to hall meeting. 
Did scripture study, where I thought about how the people I love 
have much more lasting value than money or a job, or even a 
degree. So why don't I invest in them like that? 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017 AT 12:10 AM 

Good day today. Went to Psych in the morning, then to institute, 
where we discussed Joseph Smith, and I was able to feel a little 
more comfortable singing “Praise to the Man” (which had always 
struck me as a bit cultish, but admittedly, Joseph did a lot for which I 
should be grateful). In the afternoon, I had my technical interview 
with DocSend. I was kinda stressed for it (although on the whole, I 
haven't been too stressed this week, considering I have this 
interview, figuring out how to move forward with Angela, and three 
midterms. I think my stress meter must have received input overload 
and broken, because I feel strangely calm.) The interview went about 
as well as I could have hoped. I was able to answer all of the coding 
questions well, although there were some conceptual questions 
about web architecture that I'd never learned, but the interviewer 
seemed to get that. (There were two actually, one for each of the 
two hours.) It was a good thing that I was prompted to do some 
linked lick question cracking the coding interview yesterday, as there 
was a question on that and another involving tries where I had to 
implement a node class as well. Definitely a blessing I'm grateful for. 
So, we'll see what I hear back from them in a week or two. I wouldn't 
be surprised if I don't get accepted, so I'll keep applying other 
places. We'll see. Anyway, after that I did homework, cycling through 
my midterm prep for various classes, which is approximately on 
track, although I'd like to do more 109 practice problems and review 
the Psych 50 thought questions. In the evening, I went to FroSoCafe, 
where we gathered around coffee and snacks to discuss things. I 
talked to Gawoon (one of the RAs) about “The Coddling of the 
American Mind” and a senior named Ryan talked to us both about 
the legalization of marijuana, which he presented decently 
persuasive arguments for. (He looked and sounded somewhat like 
Rob from Wayzata, who, ironically, was a stoner.) Then more 
homework. I also set up dinner with Kira tomorrow so I can seek 

relationship counsel. Because clearly Kent is not enough for her. .. 


In scripture study, I learned that I can strengthened my testimony hat 
Joseph Smith was a prophet by recalling scriptures that are 
meaningful to me, like 2 Nephi 25:25-27. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° RAIN 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2017 AT 12:38 AM 

Good day today. Went to 142 in the morning, followed by 109, then 
grabbed lunch at Subway. Went to Psych Section, where we 
discussed experimental design to test different models of attention. 
After that, I worked in the lounge for a while (and took a quick 
catnap) before going to a Psych review session, which was alright, 
but not that helpful. I then rushed back to Ricker to have dinner with 
Kira and talk about Angela. She was a good sounding board and 
provided advice. Mostly continue to ask her to do things and see 
how she responds, give positive signals (like texting, “I really liked 
doing this with you!”) or connecting more when we see each other, 
which I can definitely do better on. I'm pretty sure I've sent some 
unintentional signals… She also suggested that I invite her to do 
something on Valentine's Day, so I'll have to consider what to do for 
that. So, a very enlightening and useful conversation. We'll see how 
things are going forward. After dinner, I met up with Peter and 
Andrew and we watched “The Tale of Princess Kaguya”, a rather 
strange Japanese anime film about a bamboo cutter who finds a 
baby princess in the woods, then tries to raise her as a princess in a 
palace, and then she's taken back to her home on the moon… 
Besides that, just did homework and listened to the Hamilton 
soundtrack. I notice cool new connections every time I do, like the 
parallels between the way Angelica spoke to Eliza (about looking 
around New York) and how Alexander does so after Phillip's death. 
In scripture study, I reflected on what it means to “blind one's mind.” 
It reminded me that preconceived notions coming into an issue can 
be quite blinding, leading to an inability to see from multiple 
perspectives and learn from them. So, it requires a conscious effort 
to have an open mind. 
Also, post-script, I was praying tonight about Angela and such, and 
she texted me back to confirm for tomorrow literally as I was praying 
about her, so, that's an interesting co-occurrence. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2017 AT 12:02 AM 

Okay day today. In the morning, I did scripture study and tried to 
finalize plans for baleadas with Angela. I did some Psych review, and 
was supposed to meet Manny (my fellow intern from Juntos, who's 
in my Psych and NLP classes this quarter) for brunch to do some 
Psych review. However, he had a late night and ended up 
oversleeping, so we rescheduled for 10 in the evening over a video 
call. I did more homework and attempted to start the 124 project. In 
the afternoon, I biked over to the secret Safeway to get some 
ingredients for baleadas (milk and refried beans). It's actually quite 
close, although it requires navigating with traffic (although you do 
always have a bike lane). Did more homework in the afternoon, but 
was driven to distraction thinking about the upcoming date and 
if/what I should invite Angela to do anything on Valentines Day. I 
cleaned the kitchenette to an acceptable level, then she came over 
to make baleadas a little after 6:00. The baleadas themselves went 
well, (they're a very forgiving meal), and I think she liked them. 
Unfortunately, we had a lot of trouble connecting the whole time, 
and the conversation was rather disjointed, facile, and factual, not 
really getting to know each other more deeply. I also felt that maybe 
she was uncomfortable or didn't want to reciprocate, like at the end, 
I thanked her for coming and said, “I really enjoyed this.” She 
responded with, “That's good.” although she had an opening to say 
that she'd like it as well. During the course of conversation, I also 
asked her what it feels like, as a girl, to get asked out on a date, 
because it's genuinely something that I'd like to understand and be 
able to empathize with more. (For some reason, I felt like I should 
ask that question. It was either a prompting or just a stupid idea.) 
She said there are a range of emotions depending on the context, 
from horror to elation to indifference. I feel like I likely fall in the 
indifference camp. Anyway, overall I sensed that she wasn't super 
down to continue dating. That's her prerogative, and I'll respect it, 
although of course it makes me sad because I like Angela and feel 
like we could connect, but haven't. Sad face emoji is an inadequate 
portrayal of my feelings. Mostly, I just wish for clearer information 
transfer, rather than this subtle signaling. If she doesn't want to go 
out with me (a perfectly understandable emotion, I am not the most 
interesting man in the world), I'd appreciate it if she'd just say it 
straight up. I know that's hard, but in the long run, it makes things 
easier. It's just confusing to me when she accepts and in invitation 
then is sort of reticent throughout the night. Well, at least I can say 
that it was a learning experience. I've been trying a lot of new things 
this quarter (job interviews, dating, more involvement in lab, 
challenging classes) and if my reach exceeds my grasp, at least I am 
reaching. 
The rest of the night was uneventful. I called Manny and we went 
over Psych concepts, and I took the 142 practice midterm, which 
had questions of arbitrary specificity. More notes needed. Oh yes, 
Kira came by with a stuck lock and Peter and I were unable to fix it, 
then she commiserated with me about the disappointing date. 
In scripture study, I learned of the power of uniting with others and 
focusing on the fundamentals, like the Nephites did when 
threatened by the Gadianton robbers. At least I have good friends 
who'll support me and look out for me, and I hope I can do the same 
for them. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2017 AT 10:22 AM 

Whew! This week was one for the record books. Between having a 
technical interview, prepping like crazy for exams, doing an MRI, and 
going on a date with Angela (not to mention consultation sessions 
with Kent and Kira about said relationship), it's been pretty packed. 
Oh yes, and I had classes too. So, overall, I think this was actually a 
really positive week for me spiritually. Having all these stressors 
helped me turn to God and have real, genuine conversations in 
prayer, seek out learning that could actually help me in the 
scriptures, and just be more mindful of my inadequacies, my reliance 
on Heavenly Father, and my desire to be better. I also feel really 
blessed that I wasn't too stressed this week, so at least I was able to 
approach everything from a fairly stable emotional base. I was 
definitely inspired in my prep for and performance in the DocSend 
interview, like feeling prompted to do just a few more linked list 
problems in Cracking the Coding Interview. I've also worked hard in 
exam prep, although I did some fun things this week like SAY, 
watching the Cruz Sanders debate, FroSoCafe, and baleadas with 
Angela. This week, I'm probably going to table recreation until after I 
get through all of my midterms though. As I wrote last night, I feel 
like I got signals from Angela that she wasn't super interested in 
going forward. Of course, I feel sad about that, but así es. So, I'll 
thank her for coming last night, put the ball in her court, and table 
the issue until after my exams. I'll also do by best to not be awkward 
and just be a good friend, although consciously trying not to be 

awkward is an inherently awkward thing .. 
. I'd also like to do more 
as a fellowshipper, so I'll head out to visit someone today. I can ask 

Sam and Andrew if they have any ideas or would like to come with 
me. Besides that, this week is bailing time, so I'm going to pull back 
and focus on the fundamentals. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° MOSTLY SUNNY 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017 AT 12:13 AM 

Good Sabbath today. I did personal reflection and homework in the 
morning. At church, Evan Magnusson gave a good talk on loving our 
enemies (and having less of them). In Sunday school, we discussed 
receiving revelation. After class, I ran into Angela in the hallway and 
we had a nice chat about how things were going and picking classes. 
She seemed a lot more engaged and had a more positive affect than 
last night. So, I don't know how to interpret that. On the one hand, 
it's good to know that she wasn't so offput as to try to avoid me 
(phew!), but on the other hand, I have to wonder why her affect was 
so different than last night, was she relieved to have it over with, or 
what? On the other hand… I've run out of hands. So, the saga 
continues. Anyway, third hour was actually quite good, as we talked 
about optimism and there was significant class engagement. Then I 
called family, had dinner, and studied. The 124 quiz questions 
seemed to come from algorithms I'm not familiar with, so I'll have to 
go back and look at the slides. Also, I feel like there's quite a bit of 
the recent 109 stuff hat I have to review, sinners to work there. Ungh, 
I just hope I can pull it together in time for the midterm. 
In Elder's quorum, I learned that my attitude toward obstacles 
influences both how I respond to them and if I'll overcome them. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017 AT 12:36 AM 

Good day today. Had class in the morning. 109 was blindingly fast. 
Did 109 homework and study, another 142 practice midterm, and a 
109 practice midterm. Got a package from Aunt Jennifer (yay)! Went 
to FHE, where we wrote notes of friendship to each other (which 
sounds and was kind of cheesy, but also fun). At least the 109 
practice test wasn't as bad as I'd feared, so hopefully I can zero in on 
the things I need to improve. 
Read about Jospeh Smith's martyrdom in scripture study. I learned 
more about the destruction of the printing press and military 
tensions surrounding his arrest, which helped clarify why people 
wanted to kill him. A good reminder that every story is more 
complex than we may first believe. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017 AT 12:00 AM 

Good day today. Went to lab in the morning, where I briefly 
discussed the analysis code with Patrick. Then took the Psych 
midterm, which went well. In institute, discussed Jospeh Smith's 
martyrdom. It was interesting to learn more about the cultural and 
political milieu surrounding it, and it made it make more sense why 
he was killed. Then did homework, went to 124 where we discussed 
chatbots, and did more homework. Skipped out on SAY to study for 
midterms. Made progress. Did watch SNL and Melissa McCarthy's 
rendition of Sean Spicer, which was hilarious. That's one advantage 
of the Trump administration. Endless entertainment. Oh yes, it was 
Valentines Day too, and I did nothing of note, other than post 
cheesy Psych Valentines to the Mormon GroupMe with a bunch of 
other people. 
In scripture study, I learned that one way God blesses and prospers 
us when we follow Him is by helping us adopt a most positive 
perspective on the very same circumstances. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017 AT 12:33 AM 

Good day today. Went to 142, then 109, grabbed lunch, did 109 
Office Hours (I think I'm starting to get how to properly bound the 
integrales for joint distribution functions.) did homework and 
prepped for 142. Took the 142 final, which was harder than the 
practice finals. More obscure code traces and questions. It took me 
basically the whole time to finish (unlike the practice finals, both of 
which I finished with 30 minutes left). Well, hopefully there's a good 

curve. If not, maybe I'll take the class pass/fail .. 
. Also went to hall 
meeting, which was fun, and went over 109 with Enrique (and 
helped him conceptually work through a recursion problem for 
106B). That's it. 
In scripture study, I was tired. I wondered why it mattered that we 
have the same organization as the primitive church, given that 
church organization has clearly been quite fluid through the ages. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017 AT 1:24 AM 

Okay day today. Went to Psych in the morning, where we had a 
fascinating lecture on brain plasticity by David Eagleman, the author 
of our textbook. He discussed a theory for why we dream, 
augmenting senses with tactile input, and other fascinating 
hypotheses, but I'm tired, so I won't go into them. In institute, we 
had an interesting discussion about succession in the church and 
change over time. Went of 109 Office Hours, did practice problems, 
and learned about emotion detection in an entertaining 124 lecture. 
In the evening, I had my 109 midterm, which went poorly. I had 
serious trouble on almost all of the questions and for some of them, 
put down answers that I'm almost sure are wrong. I also ran out of 
time. It was totally different from the practice exam, where I finished 
all but the last problem in an hour and knew what to do for each 
problem. Here, I struggled to figure out the right model to apply. It's 
just so frustrating that again, I feel like I prepared well and poured a 
ton of time into studying (rereading all my notes and making a notes 
sheet, doing he practice exam, redoing the problems I got wrong on 
the practice exam and on my homeworks, as well as some other 
problems, reading the entire review session slides and doing all the 
practice problems there, and checking concepts at office hours) and 
yet I feel like my performance on the test didn't reflect my 
preparation because it happened to ask me a mix of problems that I 
was minimally competent in. Just like 142, I feel like the real deal 
had the hardest of the problems I'd done. Oh well, it's in the past 
now, so I'll just have to accept my grade (abysmal as it may be) and 
move forward, doing my best on the homework, doing the reading, 
and prepping for the real final well, well in advance. I'll have to 
employ the Math 51 strategy, where I just brute force the difficult 
stuff by doing lots and lots of practice problems until it's engrained. 
Unfortunately very time consuming, but effective. After the midterm, 
I went home and abandoned my plans to watch Thirteenth (a 
documentary about race and America's incarceration system) in favor 
of doing 124 homework. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2017 AT 12:38 AM 

Good day today. Had 142 in the morning and miraculously did much 
better than the class average. That's a blessing, cuz I thought I 
bombed it. Also had 109, which goes lightning fast in lecture. 
Dissected sheep brain in Psych. Picked up Girl Scout cookies from 
Kent and ate too many. Made progress on 124. Had dinner with 
Thomas, Kyle, Nathan, and others at a mediocre taco place in Palo 
Alto. Kira also painted me a picture of a sloth (which is adorable!) so 
I'd donate to the Dance Marathon fundraiser. 
In scripture study, learned that I need to be “tried in all things” (D&C 
136:31), which was a good reminder, since I felt like this week has 
been somewhat trying. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° RAIN 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2017 AT 10:26 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, I went to the temple with a bunch 
of people from the LDSSA. We did baptisms for the dead, so I did 
confirmations, which I'd never done before. It was nice, although it 
seemed like it took a long time to actually get things going. (They 
shuffled us to two different chapels and gave us instructions several 
times (Do it “correctly, clearly, and without haste.”) The temple 
layout is also kind of strange, with the baptistery and confirmation 
rooms in the middle of where the endowments start. Anyway, after 
that, we headed back to campus and I briefly called my family, then 
settled down to work. I made good progress on my Jeopardy 
assignment for 124, as well as making a beautiful photo sharing app 
in 142. I took a short break in the evening and played a smidge of 
“The Witness” (and, of course, got stuck) and read some of “Spain 
in Our Hearts.” Kira came by twice today and chatted with me and 
Peter, the second time for about an hour until 1:30 am. That was fun, 
but also made me quite tired, which is why I'm cheating and writing 
this entry on Sunday morning. Also of note, the only real meal I ate 
on Saturday was dinner, since J missed breakfast for the temple trip 
and lunch for the family call. Thankfully, Aunt Jennifer went trail mix 
and granola bars in her recent package! 
In scripture study, I read about the disintegration of Nephite society. 
It's scary how easily it can happen, how easily we can revert to 
tribalism. In some ways, I think that's happening in our country. We 
need to do more to ensure ties that cross cultures, whether it's 
between immigrants and neighbors or Silicon Valley elites and 
working class Southerners. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2017 AT 10:39 AM 

Well, this was a good week, but I have to say I'm rather glad it's 
over. Basically, I spent my time prepping for and taking midterms. A 
worthy cause, but not the most entertaining. I'm happy with how 
Psych went, and although I felt really unsure on 142, I was blessed 
for my preparation. I also prepared a lot for 109, although it didn't 
go well, which was frustrating. I'm going to dedicate more time to 
doing readings and practice problems for that class so I can feel 
even more prepared for the final. I'm also glad I was able to go to 
the temple this weekend and think about someone other than 
myself. Speaking of which, I should invite Kea'a to our lunch thing 
tomorrow. I tabled thinking about my relationship with Angela this 
week (Ha! That didn't really happen, but I put studying before trying 
to figure that out.) so I think now I can take it off the table and try to 
determine how to move forward and find out more about what she 
wants. I'm also excited that it's Family Weekend, so I'll get to see 
Mooples! I'll try to prioritize spending time with them (which likely 
means front-loading some work on Monday, Tuesday, and 
Wednesday). Anyway, spiritually I felt like things went well this week. 
Generally good scripture study, and engaging institute. My prayers 
were kind of variable, so I can try to offer more focused ones, even if 
maintaining that focus means they're a bit shorter. I'd like to do more 
fellowshipping, so inviting Kea'a to this lunch is a good start. I can 
also be more SoFo-ey. Maybe I can try to talk to Karen, since we 

were “matched” in the FroSoValentine thing .. 
. Besides that, I 
don't have too much more to reflect on. I do think that keeping busy 
and not playing computer games has helped me keep my thoughts 
cleaner (esp. avoiding browsing the Steam site). So I'm grateful for 
that. That's about it for this week, time to arise and be doing. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° CLOUDY 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017 AT 12:04 AM 

Good Sabbath today. Finished up both 124 and 142 assignments. 
Went to church, where there was an EPIC sacrament meeting where 
Eliza Wells spoke about the power of narrative in the gospel. (We 
construct truth from gospel narratives in accordance with our needs 
and context. It reminded me of the spatial/temporal dopamine 
hypotheses, that the name neurotransmitter, dopamine, has such 
varying effects because it appears in different spatial locations in the 
brain and/or at different time scales. Similarly, the fundamental 
components of gospel narratives like the parable of the Good 
Samaritan, are invariant, but the context in which we read them, and 
therefore their interpretation and application, vary. Then Josh 
Whisenant gave a great talk on expanding our understanding of the 
Atonement by redefining sin as whatever distances us from God. 
Then, since we take part in so many distancing acts daily, the 
Atonement is a constant need. I've definitely felt parts of my nature 
change through the Atonement, from removing the desire to have 
unclean thoughts to speaking about the gospel without fear. Finally, 
to top off the meeting, Bishop Welch's old bishop spoke (the one 
who got him married). He had a rambling but engaging style, and 
although he focused his remarks on marriage, I think there was a 
more fundamental, underlying message that he didn't explicitly 
highlight but which has broad applications: if you are doing 
something merely because you are coerced or compliant, you'll find 
reasons not to do it, or to work beneath your ability. If you do 
something because you're committed, then you find a way to do it 
regardless of the obstacles, you typically have a better attitude 
about it. Fear of failure or apathy can keep us in the 
underperforming compliant zone, meaning we need to experience a 
change of heart that makes us committed. Anyway, had good 
Sunday school and priesthood lessons, then after church, had family 
dinner at Ricker, where Peter, Eliza, Angela and I discussed magical 
realism in Spanish literature and pledges to the Texas flag. In the 
evening, I wrote my Evernote in poem form (which I was quite 
pleased with, if I do say so myself). I haven't done any creative 
writing in a long time, maybe I should try some… Also did course 
planning for next quarter and beyond. I'm actually in a pretty good 
place with CS (especially since I confirmed that my AP tests knocked 
out both required Physics and Calc classes, yay!). Now to bed. 
In scripture study, I learned that God communicates to us subtly 
both because we need to be tried in all things and to make us 
become better people be listening and being more self-aware. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017 AT 1:27 AM 

Great day today. It's late, so I'll be brief. Went in to sack in the 
morning, which was kind of a disaster since we had lots of problems 
with the response box, but at least I learned some things. After that, 
went out with Brickelle, Andrew, and Connor to our traditional 
President's Day lunch, this time at a Chinese restaurant (and got 
doughnuts afterwards). I played a bit of Super Smash Brothers with 
Brickelle, Connor, and Andrew before beginning work on the 124 
chatbot. In the evening, I met with Andrew and Sam to go over 
fellowshipping, which seems to be going well. Andrew's 
implementing a great idea of having a photo-sharing gimmick with a 
cactus. In the evening, Peter, Andrew, Connor, Brickelle, and it met 
up again to see the LEGO Batman movie in Redwood City, which 
was surprisingly hilarious. I thought it would be juvenile, and it did 
have a few parts like that, but by and large, it was quite funny, with 
lots of jokes for the grown-ups (“Batman doesn't pay taxes.”). 
Overall, very fun and restful day. 
In scripture study, I meditated, which was restful. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° LIGHT RAIN 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017 AT 12:18 AM 

Good day today. Went to lab in the morning and discussed 
experiment protocols. Learned about dopamine and reward 
prediction error signals in Psych. (And I decided that the song “I 
wasn't expecting that” is all about them.) Had an interesting 
discussion about the Nauvoo temple and the saints moving west in 
institute. Met with Jennifer Widom to discuss plans and major 
advising. It's good that I prepared questions, since the discussion 
was mostly driven by them. In the afternoon, I did some Psych and 
CS reading and worked on the chatbot. I also invited Angela to 
come to Women and Power, since it seems like something she'd be 
interested in. It is in the morning, so she likely has conflicts, and said 
she'll think about it, which likely means no. In the evening, went to 
SAY and read a number of stories, including a very long and 
mediocre one about orphans and a violin, and a good one about a 
future where the “hackers” are an elite upper class, which sadly 
ended abruptly. 
In scripture study, I was reminded that I, too, am a pioneer, and that 
those who come after depend on my to do a good job. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° RAIN 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017 AT 12:21 AM 

Good day today. Discussed tests in lab and learn that they only 
predict about 1% of the variance in real-world self-regulation… was 
sleepy in 142. My grade was posted for 109, and I actually did 
significantly better than I thought. Definitely a blessing. Took my 
bike in to get fixed since the pedals were loose, apparently a 
bearing deformed, so they have to keep it overnight to fix. 
Thankfully they gave me a loaner. Made progress on the chat of and 
other homework. Went to Habla, where we had a fun restaurant 
simulation (with real food!) 
In scripture study, read about the Mountain Meadow Massacre, 
which was saddening, but from a cognitive/social psychology 
perspective, I could see why it happened. A situation where people 
felt on edge and threatened, literally at war, acting in the context of 
inflammatory rhetoric (a la Stanford Prison Experiment), an escalation 
of tension from idle insults to a precipitous attack to all-out massacre 
(a la Milgram's shock experiments) along with a little communication 
failure and disobedience of orders created a recipe for disaster. Not 
to excuse the perpetrators, but to be reminded that normal people 
can do terrible things. Indeed, we are just as susceptible as they to 
the power of the situation, conformity, blind obedience, and 
escalation. So we must take care. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017 AT 11:49 PM 

Good day today. Had Psych in the morning, discussed dopamine 

some more. In institute, had a very interesting discussion of the 
Mountain Meadows Massacre. My bike is still in the shop .. 
, but at 
least I have a loaner. Discussed similarity calculations in 124. In the 
evening, I went out with Kent and Dad to dinner at the Los Altos 
Grill, which was good, but had huge slabs of meat. We briefly went 
back to the Stanford Park Hotel before going with Mom to have 
sipping chocolate for dessert. 
In scripture study, I learned that we are all products of our culture 
and time. Before rushing to judgement of someone or something, I 
should seek better to understand the cultural background they're 
coming from. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017 AT 10:40 PM 

Good day today. Went to “Women and Power” in the morning, 
which was fun. I recognized most of the stories from last year, but it 
was good to hear them again (and also get mildly embarrassed by 
the story about me convincing Mom that she should commute to 
Michigan). Went to 142 and 109 afterwards, and learned about the 
central limit theorem. In lab, we learned about the Rescorla Wagner 
learning model and played a fun game to simulate it. I had a brief 
call with DocSend where they said they needed another week to 
decide. So, it's not a rejection, so we'll see where that goes… They 
also figured out that I worked with Dante at Juntos. In the evening, I 
went out to dinner with the family and Zig at Terun, which was good. 
Madre talked a lot, probably since no one else did. I didn't feel like I 
had much to say. I then made some halting progress on my 124 
chatbot. 
In scripture study, I started reading an essay about race and the 
priesthood. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 46° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2017 AT 11:02 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, I went to brunch with the family at 
a place called Cafe Barrone, which was good, if slow. We then went 
up to SF to see a production of Stephen Sondheim's “Assassins” by 
the Bay Area Theatre Company, the same group that put on “The 
25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee” in the same mildly 
sketchy theater. I thought the show was mediocre. It tried to create 
more commonality between the assassins than there actually was, 
and wasn't particularly reflective, except for a little song about how 
they were all disaffected and sang “another national anthem.” Given 
the richness and thought-provoking nature of the subject matter, I 
think the play could have been so much more than it was. After the 
show, we narrowly avoided seeing MoMA and instead went back to 
the Stanford Part Hotel for a brief rest. I showed Mom and Kent my 
movie recommendation chatbot, and they were duly impressed. Its 
first guess for Madre turned out to be one of her favorite films, which 
was a lucky break. We then went to dinner at “Bird Dog”, a place 
that billed itself as “New American Tapas”. I think a more accurate 
description would be “Experimental Expensive Tapas”. From the sea 
urchin to the mysterious brownish too that garnished most plates, 
everything was just a little different from normal, and not in a good 
way. Definitely not worth the exorbitant price, but at least we'll know 
to go to Joyas next year. After dinner, we met up with Zig at Timothy 
Adam's Chocolates, and we all got sipping chocolate, which was a 
nice cap off to the night/family weekend. In the evening, I toiled 
away at various homeworks and finished reading Spain in Our 
Hearts. It's sad how these people who fought for freedom went 
unrecognized or even persecuted in their own countries. 
In scripture study, I continued reading the essay on race and the 
priesthood. The author had some points that I really thought were 
insightful, like how the gospel emphasizes the common familial 
bonds of humankind, which can help us see past differences in skin 
color. However, there were other parts that sounded like 
propaganda, like “The Book of Mormon is the most racially and 
ethnically unifying book on the face of the earth.” 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 41° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2017 AT 10:18 AM 

Overall this week went well. I'm glad that I was able to spend time 
with friends on Presidents Day having lunch and seeing the “LEGO 
Batman” movie. It was good to get a break from schoolwork and just 
laugh and have fun with other people. I'm also happy that I could 
spend time with my family having meals and seeing “Assassins” 
(even if the activity itself wasn't great, at least I could do it with 
them). Oh yes, and I'm glad I went to Habla for the dinner simulation 
and was able to get to know Pablo better. Which reminds me, I 
should talk to Habla people about sending people to church for 
tutoring. However, because of all of these activities, I feel a little 
behind on my homework, so I'll work to play catch-up this coming 
week. Spiritually, I feel like this week was good. My scripture study 
was cut a little short when I went to “Women and Power” on Friday, 
it overall I felt engaged with it, my prayers, and institute. I've been 
reading a lot of essays related to church history, which is good, but I 
should also make sure that I get a little bit of scripture in my studies 
every day as well. It seems like the Fellowshipping Committee is 
doing well. I'm excited for the rollout of Carl the Cactus! I think the 
big thing is just to consistently visit people. Since I have fewer 
commitments this weekend, I'd like to invite Angela to do 
something. I still need to gauge her level of interest. I just don't 
know if she'd be open to a casual relationship or just wants to be 
friends or would prefer to never see my face again. My options for 
figuring this out are limited. I could use a go-between, but who? 
Besides that, I can invite her to things and talk with her and try to 
discern her thoughts from the way she responds. I also don't want to 
miss out on an opportunity to have a relationship with her through 
inaction, or make her feel uncomfortable by being too pushy. So, my 
current stance is to cautiously move forward in an attempt to obtain 
more information. We'll see where things go from there. I just hope I 
can get a clear signal……….. Anyway, I should also do some job 
search prep this week, preparing to talk with Michael Gottlieb and 
doing my Quora cover letter. We'll see how things work out with 
DocSend, but for now, I should be opening as many leads as 
possible. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY SUNNY 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017 AT 1:13 AM 

Tis late, so I'll be brief. Good Sabbath today. I could talk about 
church only being two hours, dinner with the Pearson's, or going to 
the Hearth (there were a few parts where I had yearns in my eyes), 
but I covered those in my Evernote. So I'll focus on one experience 
that I feel was inspired. Coming back from dinner at the Pearson's, I 
got home earlier than I thought, and who should be standing on the 
sidewalk outside FroSoCo but Angela? It turns out that she was 
going to the Hearth fireside! We chatted for a while, then I went to 
my room to do homework. I'd scarcely entered FroSoCo before I felt 
a prompting, “You need to go back there.” I thought, “No, that 
would be really awkward to suddenly appear again after bidding 
Angela farewell, and I don't have a ride, and what if she's already 
been picked up by the time I get back, and I don't have time to go 
to this thing anyway.” I texted Kent asking if it would still be possible 
to go, got on my knees and said a quick prayer, and then said, 
“Well, this certainly feels like a prompting, so I'll go ahead and do 
it.” So I went back outside to the street, where Angela was still 
waiting, explained half jokingly that she'd made me feel like a bad 
brother, and asked if Catherine had room to take me as well, which 
she did. We waited about 15 minutes to get picked up and were 
able to chat and catch up. When I got in Catherine's truck, who else 
should be there but Chloe, Eliza, and Brickelle, which I was not 
expecting, since I'm usually the only student at the Hearth. So, I was 
pleasantly surprised to join the Mormon Feminist Mobile, and ended 
up being really glad I went, since I felt the spirit strongly at the 
fireside. Being able to talk with Angela was a good bonus as well. I 
don't know why she was waiting on the curb 20 minutes before her 
ride showed up, but I have to say it was serendipitous for me. (Also, 
Lol that when we drove back, it was me, her, Kent, and Zig in the 
car). Anyway, I'm glad I followed that prompting, even if it is now 

1:30 am. Well, well worth it. 
In scripture study, I read about the destruction following Christ's 
death in 3 Nephi. It was interesting how the “smooth places were 
made rough” while in His second coming the “rough shall be made 
smooth”, perhaps a metaphor for the effect of receiving or rejecting 
Christ in our lives. 
554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017 AT 12:53 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, I had a video call with Michael 
Gottlieb at USCIs and learned a little more about the data analysis 
opportunity he has, which seems like it would be a fun, high-latitude, 
high-impact project. If I end up pursuing it depends on how other 
things go. Had 142 and 109 in the morning, where in the latter, we 
discussed various parameter estimate methods. I took care of a 
bunch of errands in the afternoon, including picking up my (finally 
fixed) bike and toothbrush heads, scheduling a dentist appointment, 
and finally officially declaring CS. Yay! (It took about five minutes. 
They have it down to a science with all the people who come 
through.) In the evening, I went to a short CS 142 section, worked on 
the chatbot, and had dinner with a bunch of former FroSoCoans in a 
sort of alumni reunion. At FHE, we played “Balderdash”, which was 

hilarious. I still remember “Floripondio ” from last year .. 
. In Habla, 
I tutored a bright new student whose name I'm suddenly blanking 
on. 
In scripture study, I read about race and the priesthood. I still think 
the essay is a little propaganday. I do agree that the gospel does 
hint at the idea of fundamental unity, not only racial, but cutting 
across the many artificial barriers that divide us, so that we may all 
one day dance together in the temple. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017 AT 11:49 PM 

Good day today. Went to Psych and learned about memory. Started 
watching a fascinating documentary on blacks in the church in 
institute called “Nobody Knows”. It's such a contrast to the 
Pollyannaish essay I did for the reading. It straight-up calls out 
endemic racism in the church and doesn't seem to pull punches. In 
the afternoon, I polished up my chatbot and sent info off to Michael 
Gottlieb. I watched some of Trump's address to congress in the 
evening, which was depressing. Similar to his inaugural address, 
“Everything in America is broken and only I can fix it.” Went to SAY, 
which was fun, and finally got the experiments running from lab so I 
can test them on my own computer. 
In scripture study, I read about Race and the Priesthood and asked a 
question that Lana verbalized in institute, “If the priesthood ban 
wasn't instituted by revelation, why did it need to be removed by 
revelation?” There are a few ways of thinking about this, one is that 
the ban in fact was inspired to ensure the church's survival in a 
racially-charged United States, as interracial polygamous marriage 
would likely have led to even more intense persecution of the 
church. Likewise, the ban was only lifted when church membership 
was ready to accept that. Another is the Brigham Young done 
messed up but nobody felt confident in reversing the precedent 
until they'd received revelation to do so. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° MOSTLY CLEAR 

March 2017 

THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017 AT 12:35 AM 

Very good day today. In the morning, I went into lab with Patrick and 
we discussed some more aspects of the ontology experiments and a 
paper he's reviewing. I feel like I was able to give really good 
comments and he even complimented me on it in his email of the 
completed review afterwards, so I'm grateful for that. I then had 142, 
where we discussed cookies. In 109, we talked about maximum 
likelihood estimation, which was all fine and dandy until the last 20 
minutes where we had to resort to Lagrange multipliers, which I 
haven't used in four years. In the afternoon, I finished up 142, did 
some 109, and polished my chatbot (finally optimizing the spell 
checker to take less time). In the evening, more of the same. I also 
texted Angela to ask if she was feeling better from her bronchitis (I 
felt sort of promoted to do so). She responded “sort of” and then 
asked if I'd like to see the Counterpoint show with her on Friday! I 
certainly wasn't expecting that, but I'm super excited she invited me. 
(Very large positive reward prediction error.) I got her text during 
Habla and did a little mental happy dance, and may have had 
trouble concentrating for the rest of tutoring… Oh yes, I wonder if 
she has an end of quarter recital for her voice lessons. I should ask 
her about that. Anyway, I also felt prompted to ask for a regrade on 
one of the 109 midterm problems I'd missed, since it looked like it 
wasn't marked correctly. I got a response back really quickly and got 
5 more points! So, I'm glad I followed that prompting. Habla went 
well. We had a good ESL teacher (lots of pictures, interactions, etc., 
no Spanish) talk about questions for the first half of class (even if it 
did remind me a bit of the infamous church ESL “huddles”. I chatted 
with Emily and Jenny and was able to catch up with them a bit. 
In scripture study, I became very tired as I read in 3 Nephi about 
Christ wanting to gather us as a hen gathereth her chickens under 
her wings. I think that one form of that gathering is promptings, so 
ignoring them is sort of like refusing to be gathered. I was definitely 
blessed for trying to be attuned to promptings today. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017 AT 12:29 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, had Psych and we discussed 
memory and the hippocampus. There's a really interesting part 
called area CA3 which had a pathway looping to itself which can be 
used to complete input from partial information. I wonder if there's a 
CS algorithm that works like that. In institute, we finished watching 
“Nobody Knows”, which I think every Mormon should watch. It had 
a gospel song I really liked at the end called “The Welcome Table” 
which says, I'm gonna sit at the welcome table// 
I'm gonna sit at the welcome table one of these days//… 
I'm gonna to tell God how you treat me// 
Yes, I'm gonna to tell God how you treat me one of these days, 
hallelujah 

It might change how I treated people for the better if I thought 
about what they'd tell God about how I treated them. We also 
discussed a bit of the analogies between blacks and the priesthood 
and gays in the church, a conversation which Peter and I continued 
over dinner. I think there's a lot to learn from that episode for our 
present times, from patience to persistence. President Uchtdorf said, 
“There is a place for you here”, but it's my responsibility to make 
that place actively welcoming. After class, I went to a dentist's 
appointment for a cleaning, and all was well. In the evening, I went 
to a FroSoFilm screening of a documentary called “Happy” about 
people's search for happiness. I was struck by how similar the 
conclusions were to gospel principles: (1) seek intrinsic rewards of 
personal growth, service, and self-fulfillment over extrinsic rewards 
like money, fame, and status, (2) extremely happy people basically 
universally had strong family/friend relationships, (3) gratitude and 
reflection help us be happier, (4) people solely focused on their own 
happiness tend to be less happy than those reaching out to others, 
and (5) negative or traumatic events don't consign us to 
unhappiness; they can even help us be happier, if we bounce back. 
I'm pretty sure you could line those up with scripture. In fact, I think 
I'll do that tomorrow. We had a nice discussion afterwards (in which I 
obliquely referenced President Uchtdorf's “Of Regrets and 
Resolutions”). Seeing the film makes me want to be a better home 
teacher and fellowshipper too. 
In scripture study, I had many reflections on race and the priesthood, 
both questions and thoughts about why things happened the way 
they did. See my study journal for a full account. One impression 
that was reiterated was that as a church, we won't receive revelation 
until the members are ready for it. As with the higher law and the law 
of consecration, so with blacks and the priesthood and 
homosexuality. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, MARCH 4, 2017 AT 12:40 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, I had a very good scripture study, 
went to 142 and learned about promises (which got the Vienna Teng 
song “Go On, Make Promises” stuck in my head.) In 109, we 
discussed Bayesian estimation. The Bayesian Revolution is coming! I 
caught the tail end of Friday Forum (well, the food), and was able to 
chat with people. I even got Brickelle to try out my chatbot, which 
she was super excited about. In Psych Section, we discussed pattern 
separation and pattern completion with a game involving neurons, 
foam blocks, and poker chips, which was fun. After that, I did some 
homework, making halting progress on 109. Kent came over for 
dinner at Ricker and we had dinner and discussed his world travel 
plans and Angela (with which he is no help at all, only comic relief. 

He has delegated all relationship counseling to Kira .. 
). So yes, this 
evening I went with Angela to the Counterpoint show, which was 
fun. The theme was Countinderpoint, so it was all about Tindr and 
dating, lol. There were several songs I really liked, although the 
humor was hit and miss. (Kinda raunchy, but what can you expect at 
a college acapella show?) We didn't have a whole lot of time to chat, 
but we talked about her accepting a job with the NIH, Friday Forum, 
and her thoughts on the Hearth. Right after the show, she did say 
something about going to the after party, and I misunderstood what 
she was saying (the room was loud), so I said something 
noncommittal, so I think I erroneously indicated that I didn't want to 
go even though I would have been happy to. I wonder if I should 
clear that up somehow and indicate that I wasn't refusing because I 
didn't want to spend more time with her, just because I 
misunderstood what she said… Anyway, after we biked back to 
FroSoCo, we chatted slightly awkwardly in front to the building for a 
while. Then Angela bid me farewell and gave me a hug. (It was a 
very intentional hug, as we both still had our bikes, so she had to 
maneuver around them to hug me.) So yeah, that felt good. I felt like 
I got a lot of positive signals from her this week. I wonder what I can 
do to clearly reciprocate. I'll have to ask Kira, my officially designated 
spirit guide BOTK (by order of the Kentre). Anyway, busy and good 

day today. Tomorrow, I'd better start some prep for finals. 
In scripture study, I reviews the five points from “Happy” I wrote 
about last night and found scriptures referencing each of them. Lots 
of ways to “live after the manner of happiness”. I should do 
something for fellowshipping tomorrow or Sunday as well. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, MARCH 5, 2017 AT 1:09 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, I biked over to the dish and ran it 
(because I wasn't going to run to the dish, just run the dish). I got all 
the way to the top (to the location of the eponymous dish), then 
went back down the way I came, since I wasn't sure where the trail 
would lead and didn't want to get stuck somewhere on the other 
side of Stanford, and because it was starting to drizzle. Going up was 
pretty grueling, and it felt like I was going about 3 mph, but going 
down I flew. I don't know why I put myself through such a 
masochistic experience. It was great, I think I'll do it next Saturday 
too! Okay, clearly something is broken in my brain. Anyway, after 
that I spent most of the day studying, although I didn't feel terribly 
productive. I did a Psych and 124 quiz, finished up the 124 videos 
for this week, mostly finished the 109 PSet, and started the 142 
assignment rather haltingly. I also settled on singing “Empty Chairs 
at Empty Tables” for the ward variety show next Saturday, which, if 
you transpose it down three steps, is actually in a comfortable range. 
So, that should be fun, and I can invite my frieeeends (as Kent would 
say) to come. In the morning, I took Marcia's Identity Achievement 
test, which is supposed to measure to what extent you have reached 
a stable identity through exploration, are still exploring, have a 
diffuse identity, or have “foreclosed” your identity by binding 
yourself to parental and social norms without personal exploration. 
Last time I took this was in high school, and I think that I scored fairly 
highly on foreclosure. This time, my biggest score was by far 
“Identity Achievement”, which is supposed to mean that I've 
reached a stable identity through personal exploration. I still had a 
fair number of points both in foreclosure and moratorium (still 
exploring, uncommitted), which feels about right. Not sure if this test 
actually correlates with real life stuff, but very interesting 
nonetheless. I also read some more of Born a Crime, which is really 
fascinating. For example, he tells of reuniting with his father as an 
adult after he hadn't seen him for a decade. By this time, Noah had 
become a successful comedian, and his father had a scrapbook of 
newspaper clippings from all his engagements around South Africa. 
It was moving to see that kind of parental love even across racially-
enforced estrangement. There were also some humorous parts, like 
when, at Catholic school, he drank all the grape juice and ate all the 
wafers for Eucharist (because they normally didn't give him anything 
because he wasn't Catholic, although the administration didn't take 
kindly to his pointing out that Jesus wasn't Catholic either, so they 
wouldn't have fed Him His own body and blood… Anyway, at dinner, 
I listed to some fellow FroSoCoans discuss their experiences getting 
high last night for a friend's 20th birthday party. It sounds like they 
generally didn't like it and don't want to do it again. It was 
fascinating to hear about their different reactions. Personally, I have 
no desire to do recreational drugs or alcohol, and I'm grateful the 
gospel instilled that in me. Our brains are already amazing enough. 
We don't need to slam psychoactive substances in them to have 
great experiences. In the evening I stopped by Hormazd's on call 
and chatted with him, David, and Querida. So, lots of work but a 
good variety of things still. Oh yes, I also started a fast for missionary 
work (and figuring out how to connect more deeply with Angela and 
move forward with her. Tomorrow I'll put some thought into that and 
meet with Kira.) 
In scripture study, I finished reading 3 Nephi 11 and was particularly 
moved by Jesus calling to Nephi, who'd suffered so much to preach 
the gospel, by name, and Nephi bathing Christ's feet in his tears. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° LIGHT RAIN 

SUNDAY, MARCH 5, 2017 AT 10:23 AM 

I have to say that this was a very good week this week. I felt good 
spiritually, was able to do things with Angela and with friends, I kept 
up on my schoolwork, and felt like I contributed well in lab. Good 
things all around. I felt really engaged in scripture study, and felt like 
I had more insight than normal on several days (although admittedly, 
on other days I was very very sleepy. My prayers were good and 
sincere, although admittedly a little wandering. I should pray out 
loud more, and maybe if I need to get some thoughts down or 
something, take a break and then come back to my prayer so I don't 
have to hold them all in my mind. I did feel like I got a lot of 
promptings during this week, from going back to Angela on Sunday 
to go to the hearth, to texting her to ask how she was feeling to 
preparing a musical number for the variety show to putting Brickelle 
into contact with the swimmer from Ann Arbor. My little post-it note 
got filled with scribbled post-prayer promptings! For this coming 
week, I'll want to set up home teaching, dinner with Lizzie and the 
gang, fellowshipping meeting, maybe something low key with 
Angela, practice for the variety show and invite people to it, and do 
consistent preparation for my finals (I want to do a little for each 
class each day. 109 practice problems, Psych 50 notes review, 124 
notes sheet and problems review, 142 notes review.) Hopefully if I 
space things out than I won't go insane on finals week. Oh yes, I also 
went to a few FroSoCo events this week, which was good as well. 
One thing I'd like to do better next week is fellowshipping. I don't 
know who exactly to reach out to, but I should do something. Maybe 

I can invite them to the variety show (to hear my glorious singing .. 
) 
and kill two birds with one stone. Anyway, that's about it for the 
week. I'll direct my thoughts and questions about Angela to a 
separate note to be discussed with Kira. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° RAIN 

MONDAY, MARCH 6, 2017 AT 1:32 AM 

Very late. Church. Bishop Welch revealed he has prostate cancer, 
which I actually knew since Eliza had mentioned it at the Heath last 
week. Should pray for him. Fun family dinner, SoFo Meeting, 
watched Star Wars Episode IV to support Jeff. 
In scripture study, learned about preparing for the second coming. I 
thought about the many ways in which “the love of men has waxed 
cold”, like our failure to dialogue with those we disagree with. 
Certainly something that I should be aware of/combat with charity. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 45° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 2017 AT 1:22 AM 

Good day today. Went to 142 in the morning and discussed security. 
Talked about Naïve Bayes in 109. Part of our homework is to 
implement it. Good thing I already did that for 124. After lunch, 
practiced “Empty Chairs”, which felt good. Just need to nail down 
expression, emotional transitions, and spinning the long notes (esp. 
the low ones). Went to 109 Office Hours, did various forms of 
homework, and went to 142 Section for the assignment. Also heard 
back from DocSend that j didn't et the job, which is disappointing, 
but I feel like I did my best given my current abilities and knowledge, 
and it's good I got this far. Home taught Josh with Peter (who 
reminded him that he didn't have a Chinese test tomorrow, but did 
have class, so it's good we visited when we did). We talked about 
serving missions and I tried to be straight up that it's both hard and 
extremely valuable. In the evening, went to FHE where we played 
drinking games with seltzer water, lol. Only the Mormons… Also, I 
need to invite more people to the variety show… Anyway, that was 
an interesting cultural experience, and I could see a little bit why 
people would play drinking games. After that, I sat by Angela and 
we chatted while doing homework, along with some other people. 
We made plans to go to an escape room on Thursday (I saw her 
looking at the schedule on her computer and brought it up. We 
polled the group for interest, but only Jeff Tyler was interested in 
coming, and unfortunately he couldn't get tickets since he didn't 
have the email. So, I guess it's just us two. Can't say I'm 
disappointed. That was rather serendipitous. Anyway, 'tis late and 
time for bed. 
In scripture study, I read the home teaching message, which had a 
rather concerning level of war rhetoric. I feel that it's important to 
remember that in the battle against evil, other people are not the 
enemy. I also had the thought that since the gospel is a gospel of 
happiness and Satan desires that we be miserable, becoming happy 
is a way to “put on the armor of God.” 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 2017 AT 12:27 AM 

Good day today. In lab, discussed the possibility of doing a project 
with Patrick investigating a possible connection between the motor 
selective stop signal task and the dot pattern expectancy task. Could 
potentially be cool. Was sleepy in Psych, probs cuz I stayed up late 
doing the reading last night. In institute, we discussed several 
questions, including what it means for the woman to “hearken unto 
the council of her husband as he hearkens unto the father” (I've 
always interpreted that “as” to mean “on condition that” and not 
“like”.) We also discussed a longstanding question I've had about 
how to distinguish actual spiritual experiences from the effects of 
cognitive dissonance reduction. Basically, you just have to have a 
threshold where you say, “This experience is sufficiently unique and 
different from my day-to-day that I'm classifying it as spiritual.” It's 
rather like how we determine anything is real. We could just be 
“brains in vats” as Brother Hunt says, but we make a simplifying 
assumption that we can generally trust our senses to reflect reality 
when we get enough consistent input. Anyway, after that checked 
109 with Zach, worked on (and finished!) the 142 web app, made 
progress on 109 and Psych reading. I also randomly got an email 
from Oracle asking me to send them information to apply to their 
2017 Summer Intern program. It sounds like the process would be 
quite fast, taking place over the next few weeks, which isn't ideal. 
But, considering this is the day after DocSend rejected me, I'm 
willing to take the opportunity I've been given. In the evening, went 
to SAY and read many mediocre stories and a few good ones (which 
I may have overrated due to sequential contrast effects. Hmm… I 
wonder how those play into the stop signal paradigm). Now, to bed. 
In scripture study, I asked my aforementioned cognitive dissonance 
question. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 2017 AT 12:41 AM 

Good day today. Talked with Patrick about making an analysis plan 
for the DPX/CMSS project in lab, which sounds cool, but is also 
another thing on my plate, and I currently have so many things on 
my plate that I think I'm going to acquire mental diabetes from 
overconsumption and slowly become numb to my own mind… Well, 
that's a lovely thought. Anyway, discussed security in 142 and 
Logistic Regression in 109 (which was taught by a TA who wasn't 
nearly as good as Mehran). Also, if you squint your eyes, logistic 
regression looks a lot like the Rescorla-Wagner learning model we 
recently discussed in Psych. Class convergence is being achieved! In 
the afternoon, J did lots of homework and began studying for finals. 
Since my midterms were in week 6, I have less material to review 
between than and now than I did for the midterm (although I should 
still review what I looked at for midterms). In the evening, I went to 
Habla and helped Jenny with cooking preparations, as there was a 
dessert night for the last class of the quarter. I chatted with Emily 
and a visiting friend (who also has a similar accent to hers), which 
was nice. Yay human contact. Speaking for which, I'm excited for this 
Escape Room thing with Angela tomorrow. Hopefully it goes well. At 
least there's a directed main task, so I don't have to generate an 
hour of chitchat. On the other hand, I would like to have deeper 
conversations with her, but don't know how… Well, back to that 

study's “36 questions that lead to love” .. 
… 
In scripture study, I wondered why we emphasize preparing for the 
second coming so much. Isn't it basically discipleship either way? 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 2017 AT 12:55 AM 

Good day today. Had Psych in the morning, where I did not fall 
asleep, and we discussed emotion (then all the thought questions 
were randomly on serotonin, even though we hadn't discussed it). In 
institute, we discussed the second coming and I think made some 
real headway in making it meaningful. For example, scriptures like 
D&C 65 suggest that we actually have a role in determining when 
the second coming will occur, so in a sense, God is waiting for us to 
get our act together and establish Zion, which is a much more 
participatory process then waiting for an arbitrarily timed event. 
Additionally, Mormon transhumanist thought suggests that we have 
a technological role to play in achieving resurrection and restoring 
the Earth to its paradisiacal glory. (Which also means we should be 
good stewards of the environment now). I think that really elevates 
education and science to something Godlike. Anyway, in 124 we 
discussed social networks, which was cool, and I met with Andrew 
and Sam over dinner to discuss fellowshipping progress. In the 
evening, I went to the escape room with Angela at Old Union, which 
was fun. It was only a 25 minute room, and we were packed in there 
as a group of 12, which made it hard to coordinate and sort of 
discover things on your own. We did end up winning, though, with 
barely a second to spare (I rather luckily shined a black light on some 
books and someone noticed that they had letters written on the 
sides, so we stacked them to get the last clue). It was fun, although 
not nearly was fun as the Austin one (more time and a smaller group 
would've been better. I got to chat with Angela a little bit too, which 
was nice. I'm still a poor conversationalist… the next time we do 
something together, maybe it should involve lots of opportunities to 
talk, maybe facilitate moving beyond facile chit-chat. Maybe next 
week we can hike the dish or something… I also still need to have 
my Kira pow wow. Anyway, I topped off the night applying to the 
USCIS internship, which was finally posted (yay!). Now I'm tired. 
I already discussed many insights about the second coming from 
institute. Another interesting one was that Joseph F. Smith argued 
that the calamities preceding the second coming were actually a way 
of binding us together in love one towards another in times of crisis. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 2017 AT 12:19 AM 

Good day today. Had 142 in the morning, where we talked more 
about security, and it went by fast since I was sleepy. In 109 we 
discussed simulating probability distributions and Monte Carlo 
methods, which was pretty interesting, although I did duck out a 
little early to go to Friday Forum, where Angela's Mom was 
speaking. She gave a really excellent presentation on creating 
organizational change, including repeatedly asking “why” in a spirit 
that considers the situational factors rather than defaulting to the 
fundamental attribution error (like “The school isn't working because 
the students are disrespectful.” vs. “Since teachers are rated by 
students' reading levels at the end of the year, they have an 
incentive to overstate them.” Sort of a bracktrace of why's.). She also 
discussed a way of framing solutions to help people get on board: 

(1) State the situation that everyone can agree on, (2) use data to 
show something wrong with the current situation, (3) propose 
solution (4) propose implementation, or something like that. At the 
end, I asked her about dealing with problems where people don't 
engage with the data (ex. Fake news, global warming), and she 
admitted that she didn't have a good answer, but suggested 
engaging with them from a foundation of respect (or doing an end-
run around entrenched elements). I asked for her presentation 
afterwards, as I think Mom would be interested by it. In the 
afternoon, I went to Psych and we discussed SSRIs and LSD. In the 
evening, I went to the family history beach bonfire bash, which was 
actually quite fun. There were maybe 10 people there, and everyone 
shared various family history stories. We had s'mores and hot dogs 
and generally a good time. It was nice to be with friends and take a 
break from studying. Now, to bed. 
In scripture study, I thought about what my treasure is. Actually, on 
most measures of what I treasure (total time spent, free time spent, 
proportion of thoughts), I feel like I'm treasuring the right things: 
education, church, and relationships. I would like to have more 
charity in my relationships, but I don't know exactly how. I'll need to 
give that some consideration. I also took a Big Five personality test. 
Not surprisingly, the results were pretty similar to what I remember 
from high school (although I don't have the test to look over). I 
scored highest in consciousness (not surprisingly) and next in 
agreeableness, which I'd forgotten. My extraversion score was 
somewhat low (again, I knew that already) but my neuroticism was 
significantly lower, maybe lower than before? Serving a mission 
probably helped with that. I certainly don't feel as fazed as easily as I 
used to, and feel better equipped to deal with novel or demanding 
experiences. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, MARCH 12, 2017 AT 12:53 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, I ran the dish, which actually didn't 
feel as bad as last week. I still just went to the top and back down. I'll 
try continuing the run next week to see where it takes me. After that 
(and a shower), I met Brickelle and Eliza for brunch at Stern and we 
discussed advertising for the Easter program, choosing classes, and 
other stuff. In the afternoon, I did battle with the 142 photo app, and 
the battle waxed exceedingly sore, yea, many did fall by the errors, 
and great and terrible was the dependency injection. And it was 
said, “Who, then, can be mentioned.” But after the space of many 
hours, behold, a light shone forth out of the darkness, and the errors 
comprehended it not. And it did banish them into C where they 
belong, and there was much weeping and wailing and gnashing of 
teeth. So yes, lots of work there but eventually got some traction. In 
the evening, I went to the Ward Variety show, which had a true 
variety of acts, from awkward comedy about dating to awkward 
dating skits. My favorite was Steve Holt's, who took three random 
numbers from the crowd (326) to improvise a piece based on those 
notes (mi re la). It was absolutely gorgeous. I also sang “Empty 
Chairs at Empty Tables”, which went pretty well. I felt like I wasn't 
supporting it well at the beginning, but things picked up toward the 
middle, and listening to the recording Kent made of it afterwards, it 
sounded pretty good. (He and Zig came to see it, which was nice of 
them). After that, I did more homework, and Kira came by to talk 
around midnight. (Kent had whipped her into shape after seeing her 
at the show.) I updated her a bit about Angela, but didn't really get 
through all of my questions. She was pretty loopy. She gets that way 
late at night. Anyway, good day, just hope I was productive enough 
to forestall the mad rush to study for finals. A storm is coming 
In scripture study, I read in 3 Nephi 14 and again wondered why 
Jesus makes this absolutist statement that bad trees can only bring 
forth bad fruit and good trees only good, which is certainly not true 
of either people or institutions. I still don't understand it, but I did 
have a good ponder on how caricaturing evil makes it harder for us 
to see it in ourselves. 
Tonight's daylight savings time… whoopie. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, MARCH 12, 2017 AT 10:33 AM 

This week was good overall. I feel like I was able to both get work 
done and spend time with friends (and do at least a little service). I'm 
really glad I went to the family history bonfire, which quite exceeded 
my expectations. It was also nice to be able to sing again at the 
variety show. Maybe sometime next quarter I can sing something in 
sacrament meeting or at the Hearth. I'm also happy that I could go 
to the escape room with Angela. (I have to say, it worked out quite 
nicely that I was prompted to sit by her on Monday, that I saw the 
page on her screen, and that we both ended up getting tickets. 
#blessings dayone1://tags?name=blessings ) I'm also glad I could chat 
with Kira a little bit about it, although I feel like I could have used the 
opportunity more fully (on the other hand, she was pretty loopy last 
night…) At least Angela's final schedule isn't that bad, so hopefully 
she's available to do something this week. I should also ask her 
again when her performance is for her voice lessons. In other news, I 
feel like scripture study and prayer were decently good this week. 
My scripture study was on and off, but I feel like it got better during 
the week. I also think I came to a much better understanding in 
institute of how we can be invested participants in the second 
coming rather than passive observers. And it was good to discuss my 
question on cognitive dissonance, although I still feel like I haven't 
reached a full answer. I had some earnest prayers, but I got 
distracted easily, even when attempting to pray aloud. Maybe I need 
to take a few days this week to meditate and just let my thoughts 
flow, and maybe that will clear my mind so I can focus better. On the 
job front, it's a bummer that I didn't get the DocSend job, but on the 
other hand, this USCIS opportunity sounds like a good one, so 
hopefully it or something else comes through. I'm glad that Mom's 
recovering from her concussion, although it's been a long process. It 
must be hard having both that and the job search. I wonder if there's 
anything I can do for her… maybe an nice note or something. I 
should also reach out to the fellowshipping committee about doing 
advertising for this Easter program today. As for this upcoming week, 
it's time to batten down the hatches and study for finals, which I 
hope to do in proportion to their difficulty and impact on my grade. 
So, lots of 109. I probably won't have time to do much else, except 
maybe FHE and one or two things with Angela. That's about it… 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° FOG 

MONDAY, MARCH 13, 2017 AT 12:25 AM 

Good Sabbath today. In the morning, went to church and learned 
about the priesthood. In elder's quorum, we talked about 
“Daughters of God”, when the teacher asked why we were having 
this lesson, I wanted to get up on my chair and say, “Because of the 
RAMPANT SEXISM AND PATRIARCHY that permeates our society 
and the church we must awake and "go against those… men, to pull 
down their pride and their nobility and level them with the earth!” 
(Alma 51:17). But, my thoughts were not coherent, and I thought the 
better of it. At least the lesson was relatively inoffensive. Peter and I 
home taught Catherine and Erica after church, which was nice. I'm 
gonna miss them when they're gone. In the afternoon I did 
homework, and in the evening I went to plainchant at MemChu, 
where Peter was singing. It was nice and restful. I saw Angela there 
as well, and we briefly chatted with her afterwards. I still sometimes 
wonder if she likes me… 
… 
… 
Anyway, for home teaching, I had trouble seeing how to apply the 
war rhetoric message to Catherine and Erica. The best way I could 
reframe it is that we defeat Satan when we're happy, since his goal is 
to make us miserable. In discussing this, Catherine said she wanted 
to serve more, and Erica said she wanted to enjoy the moment 
more. Both worthy goals that I can work on too. Better follow up… 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017 AT 1:39 AM 

Good day today. Had 142 in the morning where we discussed scale-
out web architecture and random trivia about server farms. 
(Apparently it takes only about 15 people to maintain upwards of 
20,000 servers, which can cost billions to build. Bye bye working 
class jobs.) In 109, we discussed decision-making and rationality in a 
very interesting class reminiscent of Psych 154 (for example, they 
brought up the Allais paradox). Also, a weird phenomenon where 
the average appears to switch when you aggregate data. In the 
afternoon, I read Psych in the lovely sun, polished up my web app, 
helped Enrique with 109, (he and Hormazd seem to think that I know 
what I'm doing), and studied for many exams. I went to FHE in the 
evening, which was going to be TAP shakes, but it was closed for 
midnight breakfast, so we just had a giant collection of waffle fries 
and talked. We also inaugurated Carl the photogenic stuffed Coyote 
for our fellowshipping/GroupMe initiative. Even later in the evening, 
I went with Kent and Kira to midnight breakfast, which I hadn't been 
planning on doing, but Kent invited me and after much deliberation 
I decided that it would be good to be a social human and go. It was 
quite fun, and Kira was introduced to some of the craze… poor Kira. 
I didn't need the food, but I'm glad I went. Now I'm tired. 
In scripture study, I learned about mishmary work. I wondered how I 
can better show my love for my neighbor. I guess one way is giving 
up what I want to do something for them. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 2017 AT 12:32 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, went to lab and discussed with 
Patrick some aspects of the dog pattern expectancy and motor 
selective stop signal tasks. Talked about spatial navigation in Psych 
and I navigated to the dream spaces of my mind. We had our last 

Institute class of the quarter today .. 
. We had a good discussion 
about hastening the work of salvation, service, motivation, and 
balance. In the afternoon, I checked 109 with Zac, and went to a very 
interesting lecture in 124 where three teams presented NLP plus 
social good projects, one on gender bias, another on police 
interactions, and another on the effectiveness of text therapy. The 
gender bias one presented very compelling evidence of bias (a 
corpus of 600,000 stories on a modern online publishing site (so only 
recent work) revealed that the words used most frequently to 
describe women were “weak” and “fragile” while for men it was 
something much more flattering. And to add insult to injury, stories 
that portrayed genders in a more stereotypical manner tended to 
get bigger ratings! Anyway, something the researchers were looking 
into was debiasing ratings by replacing biased words with unbiased 
ones and trying to confuse a biased classified that had learned to 
classify men and women. It's an admirable goal, but I wonder about 
the ethics of doing such a thing. Aren't we just trading one form of 
bias for another? Can there ever be an “unbiased” account in the 
true sense of the word? Anyway, after that I went to Angela's recital 
for her intro voice class, which was fun. It's been a long time since 
I've been to a recital, and it was cool (and rather humbling) to see 
people who were just learning how to sing struggle with all the stuff 
that I had to work through too. Angela's solo went pretty well. She 
sang “Burn” from Hamilton and had really good facial expression 
and a fairly clear lower register, although the piano doesn't really 
accompany her so much as duel her, so it sounded like it was hard to 
stay together. There was quite a variety of pieces, from Broadway to 
pop to even a rap piece, so overall, a cool event. I hope my going 
there wasn't too awkward. Eric, someone from FroSoCo last year, 
was in the class as well, so it was cool to see him and connect again. 
I still don't really know if Angela likes me… I feel like I get 
perpetually mixed signals. She doesn't seem terribly excited to see 
me, but then she invites me to do something together, she can be 
pretty quiet when we're together, but then she gives me a hug when 
we say goodbye… I just don't know. I read about theory of mind for 
Psych today. I certainly don't have a very good model for what she's 
thinking. It could be that she really would rather not date me, and 
subtly wants to signal that (and subtle is not in my language here). It 
could be that she feels ambivalent and is just caught up in other 
things. It could be that she's actually kind of interested in it but still 
feeling things out and not sure how to communicate. Or, (and this is 
highly unlikely), she actually hasn't viewed going out together as a 
date. So, given that I have ambiguous information, I'll continue to try 
to gather more info and invited her to do things until I can know 
more… I really wish I had someone who she talks to who'd talk to 
me so I could get her unfiltered thoughts, at least indirectly. 
Well, I said to myself that I wouldn't go off on a tangent about 
Angela, but I did anyway. So, after the recital I had dinner with 
Connor, Peter, Brickelle, and Eliza, which was fun. I did homework, a 
practice final for 124, which went decently well, and more 
homework. Now time for bed. 
In scripture study, I learned that I can hasten the work of salvation by 
magnifying my social outreach callings: fellowshipper, SoFo, and 
home teacher. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017 AT 12:09 AM 

Good day today. I finally felt (somewhat) productive. Well, except for 
the three hours I spent trying to make a two minute video for my 142 
web app. Thus the somewhat. Angela said that she's too busy to 

hike the dish this week .. 
. That emoji probably understates my 
feelings, but it's the right valance. (Is she too busy, or does she just 
not want to do it? On the one hand, I know she has just one final. On 
the other, she's in the last month of her honors thesis. I feel like 
Tevye from Fiddler on the Roof. Well, I already went into an Angela 
existential crisis last night, so I'm going to arrest his right here. 
Suffice it to say: So many unknowns! Not getting particularly positive 
signals. I could use a go-between/second messenger.) Okay, let's 
compartmentalize that away until after finals (or at least next week). I 
went to 142 and we discussed the future of web programming. We 
had a nice review in our last class for 109. Can't say I'm as sad about 
this one ending as I was with 106A or 103. But still very useful 
material. Besides finishing up my 142 project, I went over some 109 
homework, read Psych, 142, and 109 notes, and went over some 
124 quiz questions. Peter and I met with Andrew and Connor 
Gonzales for dinner and home teaching at Lag, which was fun 
(although we could have better coordinated the lesson). They're 
both really good guys. Sat in on hall meeting and discussed with 
Michael whether you could probabilistically estimate group 
conversation patterns like average volume and frequency of abrupt 
silences. It was some fun spitballing. 
In scripture study, I was extremely tired. I barely got through one 
chapter in 3 Nephi. I was intrigued by how Christ said that Heavenly 
Father was willing to tell the Israelites about the Nephites, they just 
never asked about what “other sheep” meant. Similarly, I think there 
are lots of things God wants to tell us about, both personally and as 
a church (How can women be full participants in the church? What 
role do gay brothers and sisters have in building up the church and 
kingdom of God?), but we don't ask in the right way. So, as in so 
many things in life, I should get better at asking questions. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017 AT 12:08 AM 

Good day today. Had last Psych lecture in the morning, where we 
talked about social cognition and did a quick review. I had lunch with 
Brickelle at TAP, which was fun. I dropped a not-so-subtle hint asking 
about how Angela is doing, but she didn't reveal knowing anything 
about us dating, so I didn't want to broach the subject in the last 10 
minutes of our conversation. (I think it's rather likely that she knows, 
but hasn't revealed it to me.) In other Angela news, she posted to 
the GroupMe asking about going to “Beauty and the Beast” 
tomorrow. Considering she told me earlier this week that she was 
too busy to do stuff, this suggests that the interpretation of that 
statement was “I don't want to do something with you.” Ouch. Of 
course, there's a lot of noise in all this, but I do feel like maybe she's 
not comfortable with dating me. That's totally fine if that's what she 
wants, but I would just like some confirmation one way or the other 
(this is why I need a go-between. But, I'm not sure how to recruit 
said go-between.) Okaaay, moving on, we had a nice review session 
in 124 where the TAs each had a station to discuss a practice final 
problem, which was cool. I then had dinner, worked on homework, 
and went in to scan with Jamie in the evening. This one finally went 
off without a hitch, and it was interesting talking to her. She's clearly 
quite competent at scanning, so I should try to learn more from her 
to get better (and schedule more scans with her). Then I did more 
studying. Today I added two lines to the poem I am writing at a rate 
of one line per day. It seems to be coming out quite dark. I guess 
that's what happens when you write a poem during dead week. 
In scripture study, I was tired, so I “meditated” for 10 minutes. I also 
read about Christ preaching to the Nephites. I wondered what 
people would think if they could hear my pray for them. 
Oops, this was supposed to be a short journal entry. Trying to get 
more sleep after reading an article in TIME about all its benefits. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 2017 AT 12:57 AM 


Good day today. Had last 142 class in the morning, which was a wet 
firecracker. No 109, so I got to go to Friday Forum, which was a 
picnic on the oval, we played a game like scrum, where you discard 
sets of cards of like number, and the winning order determines who 
has the advantage in the next round, from the great dalmuti down to 
the lesser peon. I climbed my way in successive rounds up from a 
greater peasant all the way to the great dalmuti in an inspiring story 
of upward mobility. I should write a book about how my card playing 
dedication lifted me out of poverty. I'll call it “Gifted Hands”, maybe 
run for president… 
Anyway, after that I had Psych Section and people gave 
presentations on various topics of interest. I worked for a long time, 
had dinner at TAP, and in the evening, went to see the new “Beauty 
and the Beast” in the evening (Brickelle convinced me to come after 
asking several times.) I was actually quite impressed. In many ways, it 
was better than the animated version, and they added more 
backstory and character development, although I wasn't enthralled 
with the songs they added. Great fun overall. We all got FroYo 
afterwards and chatted. Angela was there as well. It sounds like she's 
doing some stuff with her family this weekend (including hiking the 
dish, which I invited her to do, lol. Well, kinda sad lol). I think I just 
need to confirm her disposition toward me. For that, I need a 
second messenger. Maybe Brickelle… I then did homework and 
watched an SNL skit and now it's past time for bed. 
In scripture study, I learned that, when we deny others access to 
Christ, it makes it easier for us to make up excuses for ourselves as 
to why we have exceptional circumstances, which can lead us into 
temptation. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MARCH 19, 2017 AT 12:04 AM 

Good day today. Quite fun, actually. In the morning, I ran the dish, 
which seems a little easier each time I do it. Maybe I can explore 
doing the full circuit instead of just running to the top and back 
down next time. Also made some progress on my incremental 
poem, which is starting to take on a loose theme of my thoughts as I 
lie awake at night before going to sleep (which usually are about 
Angela and my relationship with her). I think I'll call it, “Lunar 
Musings”. Had brunch with Connor, Andrew, Peter, and Oscar 
(dunno what brought him to Ricker this morning). I spent most of the 
day studying for various finals, making good progress going through 
the 109 homeworks. (I have now redone literally every homework 
problem on all but the last problem set. Now I should take a look at 
the midterm, then the practice final.) Had family call in the 
afternoon, which was 45 minutes of trip planning for LA over spring 
break (for which I began to zone out), 5 minutes of discussing 
“Beauty and the Beast” 2-3 minutes of talking about my classes, and 
20 minutes of Madre discussing dropping the job search and 
initiating legal action for a libelous article (after she said she had no 
high priority things to share). It sounds like she's been having a 
rough time of it recently. I should send her a note or something this 
week. I also briefly stopped by JoMo's place with Sam and we 
chatted for a bit. He's also looking into doing CS with an HCI 
concentration. (Taking 106B this quarter). He's a chill guy and I'm 
glad that the visit wasn't awkward. As his home teacher, I should 
definitely think more about how to reach out to him. In the evening, I 
went to “running charades” with the LDSSA at the church. It's like 
charades but you have to send a team member running downstairs 
to the clue giver to get a new clue each time you guess something. 
Despite having Brother Johnson on the team, who totally rocked at 
guessing, we came in a very narrow second. It was a whole lot of fun 
to take a study break, do something silly, and talk with people. 10/10 
would recommend. 
In scripture study, I thought about my responsibility under the 
Abrahamic covenant to bless all the kindreds of the Earth. It occurs 
to me that there are many ways to do that, from excelling at a career 
with a positive social impact to sharing the gospel. I should pursue 
more than one of these. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MARCH 19, 2017 AT 10:28 AM 

Overall good week this week. I made good progress in studying and 
actually feel like I'm in a reasonably good place in preparing for 
finals, although I still have to do some practice ones this coming 
week. (I'm thinking 142 today, 109 tomorrow, Psych either tomorrow 
or Tuesday.) Despite that, I was able to go to some fun social 
activities, including Angela's recital, Beauty and the Beast, and 
running charades, which were all fun. So, I didn't live inside my shell 
the whole week. It also sounds like Carl is off to a good start, and 
Erica did a great job taking photos with him. I'm glad I could visit 
JoMo this week. I should definitely try to reach out to people more 
both as a fellowshipper and SoFo. Maybe I can do some nice finals 
week thing for people… Hmm. I also want to send Mom a card or 
something, as it sounds like she's going through a lot of stressful 
things right now. Spiritually, this week was decent. My scripture study 
was mediocre, as I was quite tired and had trouble concentrating. 
This week I'm going to get more sleep, so that should help. My 
prayers were fairly good, but also somewhat distracted. I think I did a 
good job at praying for other people. Maybe I can think about one 
person at a time and really focus on their needs versus trying to 
cover a lot of people though. I can also offer more prayers of 
gratitude. Let's see. Some of the SNL videos I watched yesterday 
were kind of inappropriate, so I think I'll stick to their political skits 
from now on. I also want to try more to avoid music with profanity on 
my Spotify. I'll particularly need inspiration as I take my finals this 
week, so I shouldn't interfere with the guidance of the Spirit. I've 
already written quite a bit about Angela on previous days. Bottom 
line: I'm not sure if she likes me or what her disposition is toward 
dating. She hasn't revealed that directly (or I haven't understood it), 
so I think it would be useful to have a go-between to test out the 
waters and obtain more information, maybe Brickelle. So I'll see 
about recruiting her for that task this week. That's about it. Oh yes, 
after finals I should put together and send out a few more job 
applications… 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MARCH 19, 2017 AT 11:15 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Did reflection and study in the morning. 
Church was good. Some pretty standard talks about obedience and 
one by someone soon to leave on her mission about seeking 
revelation and how God had given her a lot of experiences related 
to Taiwan (where she's going to serve). Discussed the first vision in 
Sunday School and watched the new video taking words from 
several accounts, which I liked. Had a really good lesson on prayer in 
Elders Quorum. Angela was there, but I didn't get a chance to talk to 
her, as I was held up chatting with other people, and relief society 
went really late. After church, I had dinner with Kent at Ricker and we 
chatted about his escapades seeing The Producers, Mooples, 
Angela (he seems sanguine about the fact that I still don't know if 
she likes me), and Matt deciding to get his name removed from the 
records of the church since he wants a kid and a family of his own. 
Now that's a story that should be told in a church that professes to 
love family. In the evening, I did a practice 142 final, which seemed 
to go to well, and went over Psych notes and part of the 109 
midterm. Kira came by and chatted briefly with me and Peter (and 
noted that no one has asked her on a date yet, hint hint Peter). 
That's the night. 
In scripture study, I learned that one of the reasons Heavenly Father 
has us share the gospel is to show its power to the sharer. Definitely 
saw that on my mission. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017 AT 11:55 PM 

Good day today. Spent most of the day studying. Did a Psych 50 
practice final in the morning, which went quite well, and a 109 
practice final in the afternoon, which was decent. I knew how to do 
all the problems, although I got stuck on small parts here and there. I 
went over to Brickelle's place and studied with her and Eliza in the 
evening, which was fun. I would like to ask her if she knows anything 
about Angela before she goes… Hmm… Maybe tomorrow? I also 
went to FHE, where we got shakes (courtesy of Eliza) and played silly 
elementary school games. Once again, an nice break. Nothing else 
too eventful. I read “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock” tonight, 
which is a great poem about indecision and in which I can find a lot 
of parallels to my hesitancy and general incompetence in romantic 
relationships: “That is not what I meant to say at all. That is not it at 
all.” “There will be time for decisions and revisions which a minute 
shall reverse” 
In scripture study, I learned that it's pretty easy to call the proud 
happy by conflating extrinsic motivators with true happiness. 
Thankfully, the intrinsic things that really matter (who I'm becoming, 
if I'm doing what I enjoy) are much more within my control. Yay! 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 2017 AT 11:23 PM 

Good day. I'll be brief. Studied. Took 124, which went acceptably 
well. Studied with Brickelle and Eliza for a while, which was fun. 
Briefly asked how Angela was doing but didn't bring up dating 
because I'm a scaredy cat and didn't know how to work it into the 
conversation. I guess I'll just table it until next quarter. Just don't 
want to let the opportunities slip away, if they are indeed there. Read 
a smidge of Time as well. Did many practice problems. 
In scripture study, learned that one way I can invite grater revelation 
is better acting on what I already have. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° RAIN 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2017 AT 10:04 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, went into lab (I couldn't run 
because it was raining .. 
). Patrick and I talked briefly, then he 
released me early to study. After lunch at Olives, I took the Psych 50 
final, which went decently well. I'm not worried about that one. I 
went back to my dorm, read a bit, and took a nap. I did some 
studying for 142 and 109, going again through some of the 142 
slides (and alternating with reading XKCD, until I relented and just 
read XKCD). I also worked on my poem, which is starting to develop 
nicely. I have a pretty good intro and an almost conclusion. I just 
need some transitions. And there are a few words that don't fit quite 
right. The right word is out there, I know it. 
In scripture study, I learned that my works will follow me. I was 
reminded of that yesterday when I saw the Fellowshipping 
Committee's note of encouragement from last finals week on 
Brickelle's wall. Same goes for my selfish works, or my negative 
works. People notice, and they will follow me too. So, before I do 
something, it would be wise to ask, “What kind of work will follow 
me?” 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° PARTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017 AT 10:09 PM 

Good day today. Took the 142 final in the morning, which was weird 
and arbitrary, as expected. I think I did okay on it, but we'll see. (3 of 
16 questions were on Node file reading streams, which I used 
exactly zero times building my web app.) Turned in my Psych 
textbook, had lunch, did course evals, studied for 109 (including 
redoing the entire practice final, just to be sure), and made 
incremental progress on my poem. I didn't have too much to do, so I 
read a lot of TIME and a bit of Born a Crime where he talks about 
going out to prom with a girl only to realize she doesn't speak 
English! The fire alarm went off in our dorm, so Peter and I spent 
some time at Connor and Andrew's. That's about it. Tomorrow, we 
go to the final battle. 
In scripture study, I learned that the Three Nephites likely had a 
perspective more like God's in which they only sorrowed “for the 
sins of the world.” Might be a good idea for us to not sweat the 
small stuff either. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, MARCH 25, 2017 AT 1:16 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, took the 109 final, which went well. 
I finished in good time and was able to give reasonable answers to 
all of the problems. After lunch in a nearby cafe, I went back, worked 
on the MSS DPX analysis, and played a bit of Civ VI. (I'd rather be 
doing something with friends, but most people are gone now.) I had 
dinner with Jeff and Peter at TAP, then we went with Andrew to help 
cook food for an activity feeding the homeless tomorrow. It was fun, 
although with a wooden spoon, a sticky pan, and thick batter, some 
of my pancakes were rather jank. Also found out that I got an A+ in 
124 and I over 100% in Psych! Yay! The one to watch for is 142… It's 
good to be done, now, to bed. 
In scripture study, I learned that we need to break down pride and 
divisions in order to create Zion. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MARCH 26, 2017 AT 12:18 AM 

Good day today. Ran the dish in the morning, then did some work 
on the analysis plan for the lab. Read some of Born a Crime and 
played Civ VI (finally winning a game, which became rather boring, 
since I knew I'd win. I'd rather be doing things with friends, but now 
everyone's gone. Well, I leave tomorrow, so yay.) In the evening, J 
had dinner with Kent and Zig at a salad place at the Stanford mall, 
which was quite hearty. We had FroYo as well, which was nice. I just 
finished reading a disturbing article on Trump's relationship to the 
truth. Some of the stuff coming out of his administration is really 
Orwellian: “Any negative polls are fake news.”, “Alternative facts.”, 
“The Bowling Green Massacre”, unsubstantiated wire tapping 
claims, bans on travel from predominantly Muslim countries, blaming 
the democrats for not voting to repeal their own healthcare law, 
claiming that millions of people voted illegally, claiming that the 
good job numbers which were “phony” under Obama are now real. 
It's disturbing. I feel like I personally should do something about it. 
It's my civic duty. But what? … 
In scripture study, I wondered what it means to “curse God and die”. 
I guess to give up on any effort of being a good person. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, MARCH 26, 2017 AT 10:06 AM 

This week was good overall. Not terribly eventful. Mostly studying 
for finals. I did get some fun stuff in, including studying with Brickelle 
and Eliza, having dinner with Jeff and Peter and going to the 
cooking service project, and having dinner with Kent and Zig, so at 
least I wasn't cramped in my room the whole week. I didn't reach out 
to Angela as I thought she was busy (I did ask Brickelle about her. I 
should have probed to see if she knew anything about Angela's 
feelings toward me… well, I'll do that next quarter.) I made some 
progress on the analysis plan for lab, and wrote a poem, so I wasn't 
totally unproductive. I did okay computer games a little more than I 
wanted yesterday, but I got in some reading, exercise, and chores, 
so I didn't sit around doing nothing. This week, my goal is to enjoy 
this time with my family and focus on them. I also want to take care 
of business like lab work, job apps, and finalizing my course 
schedule. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, MARCH 26, 2017 AT 11:28 PM 

Good Sabbath today. After showering and scripture study, left with 
Kent to drive to LA. We listened to his music for the whole drive… I 
could have asked to change it, but by the time I wanted to, I was 
driving and he was asleep in the passenger seat. We made a few 
stops: one for strawberries (mmm) and garlic ice cream (less than the 
sum of its parts) at a roadside stand, one for greazy burgers and 
Neapolitan shakes at In-N-Out, one one for gas. After arriving at LA, 
we hiked up to the Griffith Observatory and learned various things 
about the sun. They had this art installation that neither of us 
understood that was supposed to capture the season and stuff from 
the sun's angle. After that, we checked into our Airbnb, which is 
itself nice, but located in a rather sketchy area (with pockets of 
gentrification). We had dinner at an overpriced bourgeois taco 
place, then hunted to breakfast food, ending up at Whole Foods. 
Kentre was sufficiently sketched out by the area to order a Lyft to 
take us the 15 minute walk back to our place. After that, Kent 
showed me his graphics game and I did my Evernote. Now sleepy 
time. 
In scripture study, I was reminded to the importance of attribution. 
For example, I did well in my classes this quarter, but I know I 
couldn't have done it alone. I know I only got good grades on my 
midterm because Heavenly Father blessed me after I'd studied all I 
could. It's important to remember just how much I rely on others, 
lest I become enamored of my own skills. 

430 S BROADWAY, LOS ANGELES, CA, UNITED STATES • 60° CLEAR 

TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017 AT 10:54 PM 

Good day today. Visited Caltech and Padre reminisced. Had lunch 
with my cousin Dylan and went to the science center, saw the space 
shuttle Endeavor. It's so cool that it actually went into space and 
came back. Since Kent and Mom took a Lyft to the art museum after 
a while, I had to drive with Padre back to the Airbnb, but thankfully, 
we survived. We had dinner in an upscale restaurant by the Disney 
Concert Hall. The food was experimental and overpriced, served in 
small portions and good, but not great. We saw a Dvorak and 
Brahms concert, which was okay. The Dvorak was good, but I was 
sleepy, and the Brahms was endlessly repetitive. I learned I got all As 
in my classes! Yay! Definitely was blessed on my midterms and finals 
in 109 and 142. I also finished reading Born a Crime, which was very 
good. Oh yes, I also got some emails from USCIS that indicate that 
my application was forwarded to the relevant department, which is a 
good sign. So, lots of good things today. 
In scripture study, I wondered how I live by faith. I think I should ask 
myself often how my faith actually changes my behavior, as it doesn't 
as much as it should. For example, I can be nicer to my family, as 
Kent seems to be not always in the best mood on this trip. 

424 S BROADWAY, LOS ANGELES, CA, UNITED STATES • 65° CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017 AT 10:15 PM 

Good day. Left LA. Drove up to Hearst's Castle. On the way, had a 
lovely lunch at an upscale indoor market in Santa Barbara. Toured 
the upper rooms of Hearst's Castle (excellent tour, we had to 
reschedule our first one because we were confused about the time), 
looked at Rocky Point and the elephant seals, had a late dinner at a 
seaside restaurant. I started reading Richard Thaler's Misbehaving. 
In scripture study, I wondered why Moroni wanted the Lamanites to 
know that they're of the house of Israel. 

6454 MOONSTONE BEACH DR, CAMBRIA, CA, UNITED STATES • 62° CLEAR 

THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017 AT 11:35 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, Mom wasn't feeling well, so Padre 
and Kent and I went to the great rooms tour at Hearst Castle, which 
was good and opulent, although not as engaging as the upper 
rooms tour yesterday. I did like that the guide went more into the 
history of individual pieces on this one. After that, we had lunch at 
some sort of podunk cafe, then drove up to Monterey and down the 
coast on highway one, looking at the beautiful vistas (and somewhat 
distracted by the urgent need for a bathroom break). We were trying 
to go to some lighthouse/sea otter watch point, but it was closed. 
So, we drove back to Monterey and checked into our hotel, a most 
luxurious resort and spa. Kent exercised while Mom, Dad, and I went 
on a walk down Cannery Row, which was windy and rather cold. We 
had dinner at Schooner's, the hotel restaurant, and I had swordfish, 
which was good (but not as good as salmon). We topped off the 
night with a fast dessert at Ghiradelli's 

886 CANNERY ROW, MONTEREY, CA, UNITED STATES 

April 2017 

SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 2017 AT 12:05 AM 

Good day. Went on a nice run down a bike/walking path I. Monterey. 
After breakfast, worked on lab stuff while Kent and Mom got 
massages. We all went to the Monterey Bay Aquarium for a bit 
(where I went last summer), had lunch at a seafood place and desert 
at Nestles Toll House (where I got cookie cake. Yum!) we then drove 
up to Año Nuevo near Half Moon Bay and hiked there. Then we got 
dinner at Sam's Chowder House, where Mom and Dad ate right after 
he proposed to her on the beach. They reminisced. (He said, “I like 
you more than the other girls I've dated.” She said, “I'll think about 
it.”) We then dropped Mooples off at their hotel and Kent drove me 
to FroSoCo, where I planned courses and played a bit of “The 
Witness”, making some progress. I topped of the night reading 
more of Thaler's Misbehaving. 
In scripture study, I reflected on the ways God makes a great nation 
of us, from augmenting our skills to preserving our values, stories, 
traditions, and culture. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 2017 AT 11:44 PM 

Good day today. Watched General conference, which was good. 
Several talks I really liked, including Elder Holland's, who specifically 
mentioned that all are welcome in the church, regardless of sexual 
attraction (and he said it with great emphasis). I also made progress 
on my lab analysis, and have something reasonable (if still 
incomplete). I think I've settled my course schedule. It looks like 110 
is recorded, so I'll be able to go to “Christianity in 21st Century 
America” at that time and watch the 110 lectures later. (Which, 
incidentally, I did with 107 as it conflicted with Chamber Chorale and 
Friday Forum.) Besides that, I played a bit of “The Witness” and 
made interesting, if puzzling, discoveries. Puzzles that required you 
to look through glass at a transparent water reflection, and despite 
activating all the stuff at the top of the mountain, I still can't figure 
out the puzzle there… Anyway, I read a bit of Misbehaving, the 
news, and TIME. That's about it. 
I neglected scripture study due to general conference. One 
impression I had is that I want to develop more charity. I'm. It sure 
exactly how that's going to work, but praying about it and thinking 
about others' needs more is a good start. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, APRIL 2, 2017 AT 8:32 AM 

This was a nice restful week overall. It was fun to spend time with 
family, catch up, and relax. I definitely enjoyed this trip more than 
NYC, and we got to do lots of fun things, like the Science Museum, 
reliving Padre's glory days at Caltech, enjoying yummy food, and 
visiting the zoo. I did scripture study and prayer consistently, 
although they weren't always the most focused, but I anticipate that 
will be easier to do once I get back to my regular schedule. 
Speaking of which, I think I've finalized the classes I'm taking this 
quarter and I feel excited about them: on hands-on programming 
class, one very useful theory/algorithms class, and one religion class, 
along with a little Python class, lab, and maybe tutoring. That should 
keep me busy, but hopefully shouldn't be quite as packed as last 
quarter, which I managed (which some serious inspiration on 
midterms and finals), but which was a lot. I think I did a good job of 
working toward my year's goals last quarter: 


1. Spend more time with the people I care about I made LDSSA 
activities more of a priority, and was able to do fun things like 
going to movies with friends, dating Angela, and doing service 
(which I'd like to do more of) 
2. Work to reach my full potential I really worked not just in my 
classes, but to be a better SoFo by more intentionally reaching 
out to people (the same with fellowshipping, where I think we've 
made some progress, but need a few more clear goals. Need to 
get on that Easter program for one thing.) and doing the 
FroSoCook, which I'd like to do again next quarter, maybe with 
more hype. I still want to reach out to the people I know less, 
especially on my hall. I guess I. An start with saying “Hi” and 
asking them a little about their lives. Another part of reaching my 
full potential that I felt good about was how I played very little 
computer games, I was swept up in other things and didn't have 
time for them. I'd like to continue that habit this quarter. 
Physically, I upped my exercise regime a bit and started running 
the dish, which is fun, and which I want to continue doing once a 
week. Maybe I could go rock climbing too… (Sadly, Rock I is full 
this quarter, but maybe next year.) I worked on the job search, 
although right now the only promising candidate is this USCIS 
job, which looks pretty cool. I don't know how aggressively I 
should be applying to other things, but I may want to put some 
feelers out. Spiritually, last quarter I had solid scripture study, 
meaningful prayer, and really enjoyed and felt engaged in 
institute, so I want to continue all of those things this quarter. If I 
could add one overarching spiritual goal, it would be “charity”, 
so I'll dedicate a study this week to planning specific things I'll 
do to work towards that. 


3. Let myself be happy I feel like I generally was happy last 
quarter, despite a heavy course load and the uncertainty of the 
job search, it just brought home to my how much happiness is 
determined internally as opposed to by my circumstances. I was 
definitely blessed with feelings of peace at difficult times, and 
should reach out to others to try to lift them up as well. 
So, overall, a good week and a good past quarter. I'm excited about 
the coming one (and a bit apprehensive, as always), but I hope to 
continue working on the above goals and plans and to enjoy the 
ride. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, APRIL 2, 2017 AT 11:01 PM 

Good Sabbath today. In the morning, went with Jared and Peter to 
John's house where we watched Conference, which was fun. Brunch 
was also provided by the Lambert's, which was very nice of them 
(and allowed me to finish my fast to be inspired in planning with 
delicious food). I really liked the talks today (although I was a bit 
sleepy in the second session). Once again, I think charity came our 
as a huge theme and something I want to work on. After conference, 
Peter and I rode back with Kira. I finished up course planning, tuned 
my analysis plan draft, got a new todo list app to try that should sync 
across my phone and computer and not be demented like Any.Do. I 
had dinner with Brickelle at Stern, which was fun. (Family dinner 
contingent of two.) I forgot to ask her if Jen Hanselman got in 
contact with her. I should follow up on that. We talked about 
applying to and deciding to go to Stanford, which brought me back. 
(Wow… it's been 4 years now. Time flies.) I should ask her if she 
knows Angela's feelings about me. I was going to write “when it's 
natural” but I don't think that will ever naturally come up in 
conversation, so I'll just have to introduce it somehow, someday, 
somewhere. Well, that's my day. Oh yes, and I wrote my Evernote 
and listened to “Lamb of God.” I've had “Sometime We'll 
Understand” in my head for a while, maybe because a Portuguese 
hymn with similar meaning was referenced in Conference yesterday. 
I once again neglected scripture study in favor of Conference, but I 
did do personal reflection and think about my goals. I've been 
making good progress, but of course there's more to do. I'm adding 
“charity” specifically for this quarter. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° PARTLY CLOUDY 

MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017 AT 11:44 PM 

Good day today. First day of classes. I finished up some errands in 
the morning, and went to. Brother Rasmussen's institute class. I'm 
not sure it's really helpful for me. I won't be able to come on 
Wednesdays due to lab, but I'm not sure if I want to come on 
Mondays… I then went to Christianity in 21st Century America. (I 
need a good abbreviation for that class. Even Religst 117 is a bit 
long. I'll probably drop the identifier and just say 117.) It has a group 
of around 12, mostly male (which surprised me) and mostly 
sophomores. We had an interesting, if meandering, discussion about 
a Christian religious issues in the news. I'm the only CS major in the 
class, although there's one (familiar looking) SymSys major. After 
that, I went to CS 161, which is being taught by Mary Wooters, 
who's new, but she seems enthusiastic and has good slide design, 
which is a sign of good teaching. After that, I entered due dates into 
Wunderlist (always a daunting task), and did other administrative 
stuff. Kent came over briefly and tried and failed to print a tax form 
before getting dinner with Kira (who said we were matching since we 
had similar shirts, so she had to take an adorable photo). I went to 
FHE, where we played volleyball at Stern field. I am abjectly terrible 
at volleyball, but it was still fun. I then looked at some of the articles 
and data for 117, including a fascinating Pew study consisting of two 
early identical surveys conducted in 2007 and 2014. I bemoaned the 
political conservatism of the Mormons (but in that time period, 
support for gay marriage went up by 12%, so there's hope!). I also 
learned that about a third of people in America don't believe in 
human evolution (incidentally, about the same proportion don't 
believe in global warming. I wonder how much overlap there is 
between those two groups…) 
In scripture study, I began to reflect on charity, and determined that 
two ways that I can start being more charitable are to try to adopt 
others' perspectives more, and let them know I care about them. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2017 AT 12:06 AM 

Good day today. I finally used a running app and discovered that my 
longest morning circuit is about two and a quarter miles at a pace of 
just over 8 minutes per mile. I'm sure that will motivate me to run 
faster. I had no actual classes today, so I watched the 110 lecture, did 
reading, attempted to set up proper residential web access on my 
laptop to get free a esa to my 110 textbook, went to Institute, met 
with Kent to get flight tickets for the end of the quarter, called 
Madre to go over tax stuff, signed and submitted tax forms, did 
more reading, looked over Andrew's Easter program flier and looked 
into printing, and wrote up some impressions in my 117 worklog. So 
it was busy, but not always with homework 
In scripture study, I read about “certain women” and wondered what 
made them so certain. In institute, we concluded that confidence or 
professing to “know” something is less important than actually living 
right according to what you believe. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2017 AT 11:56 PM 

Good day today. Finished up readings in the morning, and read 
some vignettes in American Grace, which is really fascinating. Went 
to institute with Bro. Rasmussen, which was rather uninspiring, 
discussed insights on the Pew Religious Landscape Survey in 117, 
learned about divide and conquer and merge sort in 161, printed 
and posted Easter program fliers (only to realize that Andrew had 
misspelled “Latter” in Latter-Day Saint. Well, too late now.) Watched 
110 lecture on file systems. We already have an assignment out! 
Time to bring back the C and C++ and pointer fu. Taught 
Guadalupe, a very bright student in Habla, who even knew proper 
use of “do” and “does”! Signed up for tutoring 103. I'll have an 
interview soon. 
In scripture study, I learned that to abide in God's love we must be 
stretched by Him, as part of His love is His desire for us to develop 
to our full potential. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017 AT 12:00 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, Inwent to CME 193, intro to 
scientific Python, which was very basic. So I worked on 110 during 
the lecture.had good discussion in institute about whether God's 
love is unconditional. (I'm on the yes side, but there are some 
semantic quibbles.) Met with Patrick and he seemed pleased with 
the analysis plan draft, which we went over in detail. Now I can 
finally begin coding the analysis! Had an interview at the Office of 
Accessible Education for tutoring, which went well. (As soon as he 
found out I'd served a mission, he seemed more confident in my 
teaching ability.) I was approved and should begin tutoring 103 
shortly. After that, I worked on 110. Pointer arithmetic is coming 
back nicely, but not surprisingly, I'm not good at the things I've never 
learned. (We're supposed to use this lower_bound search thing with 
an anonymous comparator function, neither of which I've used 
before in C++, and it's giving me a hard time.) I also read more of 
“American Grace” on the shock of the sexual revolution and the 
aftershock of the rise of evangelicalism by those offended by sexual 
liberation. (So, apparently the recent history of Christianity in 
America is all about sex.) Time to sleep now. 
In scripture study, I learned about how charity allows us to know 
ourselves better by giving us (1) purpose in helping others and (2) 
perspective as we see their lives and reflect upon how they relate to 
our own. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 54° LIGHT RAIN 

SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 2017 AT 1:24 AM 

Good day today. Did work in the morning, some lab and 110. (I 
didn't resolve the error I've been fighting in 110 in the morning, but I 
got it in the evening. I needed to #include dayone1://tags?name=includ 
e something… all that work for one line.) I went to Friday Forum, 
where Tyler Lefevor, a gay Mormon who's a counselor at CAPS and 
just spent a year counseling at BYU, spoke. He gave excellent 
remarks on openness, acceptance, and exploration as guiding 
principles in these situations, both for yourself and working with 
others. I also caught up a bit with Angela, who's rushing to complete 
her honors thesis and also wants to experience all of California in the 
next ten weeks… while taking all the classes she needs to graduate. I 
went to 110, where we discussed file systems, and I may have been 
sleepy. Made progress in my classes, especially after my 110 
breakthrough. I briefly went to Murray in the evening, where a bunch 
of Mormons were playing Halo (it was console, so I was abysmal, but 
it was fun to hang out with them). Now it's sleepy time. 
In scripture study, I read President Monson's talk “We Never Walk 
Alone”. I really love the part where he talks about how God's love is 
simply always there (an endorsement of unconditional love if I ever 
heard one). It's clear that his wife's death really made him deeply 
consider this topic. Certainly developing a love that's “always there” 
is an important part of charity. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° LIGHT RAIN 

SUNDAY, APRIL 9, 2017 AT 12:27 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, I went on a very short run (a 6:49 
mile, to be exact. Possibly one of the fastest mile times I've ever 
had, which is good but also kinda sad that it took me this long to get 
here) as it was raining intermittently. I created a Facebook event for 
the Easter thing, the first I've ever made. I actually pretty much 
finished my CS 110 assignment too. It's a little slow, but probably 
good enough. Last night I received an impression that I should text 
Angela and ask if she was free for dinner today. (Very spur of the 
moment, I know, but I legitimately didn't have any meal swipes left.) 
She replied, “Hey Gordon, I've decided that I'm just not interested 
in us going out. We've given it a good try though.” Of course, I'm 
bummed out, but I'm also really glad she was up front about it. I'd 
much rather have certain closure than proceed in a state of 
perpetual uncertainty. I said that I understood, and thanked her for 
being clear, and for generally putting up with me. (I really hope I 
haven't been a burden on her in an already very busy time.) Now, I'll 
leave the detailed analysis for an after-action report tomorrow, after 
I've gotten a good night's sleep. Suffice it to say that, despite all the 
ups and downs, I'm glad I had this experience. A few minutes after I 
got her text, I had the thought, “Well Heavenly Father, this is a very 
interesting way of teaching me charity.” I've been trying to pray for, 
study, and develop charity more after the messages on it last 
conference (and since I generally feel I'm not good at it). I have to 
say that Paul's words that charity “suffereth long, is kind, … seeketh 
not her own” and “never faileth” felt particularly resonant to me 
today as I thought about how to respond and move forward. So, 
God moves in a mysterious way. Anyway, I talked with Mooples (no 
Kent, as he's traveling this weekend) and we discussed insights from 
my religion class and how they apply to the church (hint: be more 
welcoming toward homosexuals). I read some more of American 
Grace, searched for birthday gifts for myself with some small 
success. I really don't need a lot of stuff. The few things I strongly 
desire tend to be non-physical and don't lend themselves well to 
birthday presents, like an internship. (Although technically last year 
my Juntos interview was on my birthday, so I did end up with a job 
for my birthday.) In the evening, I had dinner at Panda Express, and 
went to a game night put on by Jeff with a bunch of other LDS guys 
(and it was all guys). We played a card game called “Bang”, which 
has elements of mafia (there's a sheriff, outlaws, and a renegade. 
They all try to kill each other). It was actually quite fun. Won one 
round, lost another, both really close games. So, that's about it for 
today. Beddy-Bye time. 
In scripture study, I reach President Uchtdorf's talk, “O How Great 
the Plan of Our God” on really appreciating just how special the 
gospel is. I reflected on the Plan of salvation more completely than I 
have in a while, and it really is inspiring how it changes life from a 
jumble of experiences racing toward the grave to a process of 
learning, growth, relationship building that allows us to become 
more like God. I should probably consider that more often (after all, 
the theme of President Uctdorf's talk was how we under-appreciate 
these things). 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, APRIL 9, 2017 AT 9:55 AM 

Wow, it's hard to believe that week 1 of spring quarter is already 
over. The time is truly flying. Let's see, where to start? So, I'm happy 
with my classes this quarter, and hope that it will be slightly lighter 
than last quarter, leaving me more time to be a fellowshipper, SoFo, 
friend, and all that other good stuff. Although with tutoring and lab, I 
suspect that it will still be rather busy. And I need to find an 
internship still. I'll ask Kent about reaching out to Dante… I had 
consistent scripture study this week. I'd like to get a little more Book 
of Mormon in between talks. I had some good action items studying 
charity: (1) put myself in others' shoes more, and (2) tell others I care 
about them more. I think it would be a good idea if each week, I 
could pick some aspect of charity to focus on, so I don't get 
overwhelmed. Institute with Brother Hunt was good, as always. I 
don't really feel like I get a lot out of Bro. Rasmussen's classes, so I'm 
considering if I shouldn't attend this quarter. I can see how not going 
this week makes me feel. My prayers this week were up and down. I 
had some good ones, but mostly I was just tired. I haven't been 
praying for my home teachees as often as I should, so I should get 
back to that. I was able to contribute to the Easter program 
advertising with the fliers, email, and Facebook event, and I'm 
excited to be able to sing in it. I should consider who to invite. I'm 
also glad I went to Jeff's game night last night. It was a lot more fun 
than I'd expected, and it was good to see a lot of people there. I 
didn't do too much as a SoFo. I should plan when to do another 
SoFo experience. So, overall, good first week. 
I now dedicate the rest of this entry to an After Action Report 
reflecting on my experience dating Angela with the goal of taking 
away specific and actionable learnings I can use to improve. 


Prepare conversationally: I'm an introvert and not great at talking 
to people and I know it. That doesn't mean I dislike people, 
don't want to talk to them, or can't carry on engaging 
conversations. However, it does mean that I'll benefit from 
thinking beforehand about what points of connection I might 
have with somebody. Make a list, physical or mental, of topics or 
questions to bring up when it feels like the conversation is 
lagging, to jump-start more organic discussion. 
Communicate clearly: If she says something I don't understand, 
ask clarifying questions. If she wants to continue the date doing 
something else, understand what she wants to do so I can 
respond clearly and without ambiguity (and understand that this 
serves as a form of positive or negative feedback). If I liked or 
enjoyed something, say so. Pay attention to whether or not she 
agrees. If things have been going on for a while and I'm unsure 
how she feels about it all, don't be afraid to ask. 
Closure: at the end of a date, have some specific, sincere, 
positive things I can say about the experience. Thanks her for 
being willing to come. State when I'll see her next. Avoid 
standing there awkwardly. Have some way of clearly signaling 
finishing (a hug, “I'll see you…”, etc). 
Be myself: This is tricky because who I am is evolving and of 
course, I want to be my best self, but don't be afraid to just be 
Gordon. Let my sense of humor show, be willing to be 
vulnerable in the sorts of stories and thoughts I share. I don't 
have to pretend that I have my life totally figured out or that I 
know everything. If it is to be a successful relationship, then she 
should click with Gordon not some fake construct who pretends 
to know more than he does. Of course, be tactful and discreet, 
but genuine. 
Fear not: I'm new at this, so of course I'll make mistakes, and 
there will be plenty of awkward moments. That's okay. I'm 
learning. Success is to learn and enjoy the ride. Failure is not to 
try. Don't be afraid to ask people out, to sincerely ask about her 
feelings, try new approaches, questions, etc. If it doesn't work 
out, take note, pick myself up, dust myself off, and try again. No 
matter how it turns out, it's always an adventure. 
554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, APRIL 9, 2017 AT 11:55 PM 

Good Sabbath today. In the morning I wrote my Angela AAR, with 
some useful and specific learnings. I watched a few Bible videos, 
including that of the prodigal son, which brought tears to my eyes. I 
feel like I have definitely been both sons in the story. There have 
been times in my life when I've gone to God to say “I have sinned 
against heaven and in thy sight and am no more worthy to be called 
thy son” yet felt His warm embrace. There have been other times 
when I've felt like I'm doing all I can to do right but don't feel seem 
to be getting blessed, but then feel the impression, “son, thou art 
ever with me.” I especially liked Sarah Lindsey's talk in church about 
spiritual guidance. She discussed how her brother got in an accident 
and went into a coma that the doctors thought he wouldn't wake up 
from, but not only did he recover after a blessing that “your work in 
this life is not yet done” but is now serving a mission in Honduras. 
Andrew Lee also gave a very good lesson in Elder's Quorum that 
was essentially a close reading of the talk be Elder Renlund this most 
recent conference on ministering to the “sheep with scabs.” I 
thought his talk was emblematic of the overall conference theme of 
charity and inclusiveness. In the evening, I enjoyed family dinner with 
some other Mormons (overwhelmingly guys) and went to a choir 
practice for the Easter Program (also overwhelmingly guys). In fact, 
I'm pretty sure that the only Mormon activity I've been to where 
there were more girls than guys from the LDSSA was the Hearth, 
when the president of Affirmation came… Also did a bit of lab 
analysis code and algorithms homework. I already wrote about my 
scripture study above, so g'night. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 52° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017 AT 12:38 AM 

Good day today. I did reading in the morning, went to 117, where 
we discussed the first few chapters of American Grace and I took 
notes for the class. I also went to 161, where I was inexplicably 
sleepy. We had a FroSoCafe event tonight where President Marc 
Tessier-Lavigne visited us and discussed some issues. I was in one 
circle where the question was “Does Stanford have a culture of toxic 
masculinity. To be honest, that circle felt overwrought, and I couldn't 
help but wonder if there were better ways of framing social problems 
at Stanford than some fundamental cultural perception of manliness. 
(Also, I think you could have turned it into a drinking game every 
time someone said "toxic masculinity” with great gravitas.) I went to 
another circle that talked about the need for more diverse 
ideology/political discourse, which was much more to my liking. 
Everyone in the group thought this was a moderate to severe 
problem at Stanford and President Tessier-Lavigne indicated that 
he'd asked the law school and the business school (?) deans to form 
a task force on it. He asked about our through and suggestions for 
various programs to address it. I mentioned research that indicates 
that people with strong preexisting opinions can actually become 
more polarized after seeing the same evidence, and he actually 
asked me to email him the paper! So that was cool. I also had my 
first 103 tutoring session with Michael. He seems competent and it 
went well. Thankfully the homework problems are pretty much the 
same as when I took it. After that, I had Habla. I'd actually left, since 
they had enough tutors, but I felt like I should go back and ask Hilde 
about connecting him to the church tutoring program (which needs 
more tutors). I did so, and when I got there, it turned out that a tutee 
arrived late, so I was able to teach him. Finished the night by reading 
more of American Grace and learned that while 90% of Mormon 
women oppose women serving I the priesthood, only 52% of men 
do (and this was in 2006!) that's a striking difference (and quite a few 
men who support women's ordination). 
In scripture study, I read about charity and the brother of Jared 
seeing the finger of the Lord. I thought about how our efforts, like 
his stones, often seem inadequate, but God can touch them and 
consecrate them for good. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 55° PARTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017 AT 11:52 PM 

Good day today. Went to Python in the morning and did the 
exercises. Discussed President Uchtdorf's talk “O How Great the 
Plan of Our God!” in institute. Made progress on my 117 reading, 
made some tweaks to 110 that made it moderately faster (and 
hopefully fast enough. It can pass sanity check, but I still feel like it's 
speed is marginal. Also should add more error checking.) Went to 
161 recitation, which was a little basic (what is induction?) but had 
some useful material toward the end. In the evening, I went to the 
LDSSA Easter Program at MemChu (and sang “I feel my Savior's 
Love” in the choir). It went very well, despite Brickelle, who 
organized it, being totally stressed about it. Even our music number 
actually sounded nice. I especially liked Elijah's talk, as he spoke 
about the pagan origins of Easter and it's connotation of “moving 
closer to the sun” which is a valuable principle to keep in mind. After 
that, a group of us got ice cream at TAP, then I whaled on 
homework. (I can't believe it's week 2 and already things are piling 
up. So much for the chill quarter.) That's about it for today. 
In scripture study, I've started watching Easter-themed Bible videos, 
so I watched one on the Last Supper today. I also read about charity, 
which, like a mantle of authority, is something that I should carry with 
me everywhere and which endows me with certain responsibilities 
(and power, I believe). 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017 AT 11:59 PM 

Good day today. In the morning, finished up 110, finally making a 1 
line change to where I put my return statement in search that made 
it monumentally faster. Unfortunately,I had no such breakthroughs 
puzzling about 161 algorithms. But, I'll find a way… in 117, we 
discussed gender, inequality, and race in religion. I'm still puzzled as 
to why religious women are less feminist than religious men on some 
measures (like support of female clergy). In 161, we discussed an 
algorithm for selecting the k-th largest element in an array in O(n) 
time, which I should review, as it's quite complex and relies on two 
recursive functions. I went to 110 section, where we went over some 
file system stuff that I also should review. I read a chapter of 
American Grace on religion and politics that had vignettes of three 
churches, including an LDS ward in Utah. I'd have to say their 
description was spot-on. (Maybe it helps that one of the co-authors 
is Mormon.) Did a bit more analysis for lab. Now, to sleep, until the 
kind old sun shall rouse me. 
In scripture study, I read Elder Nelson's talk on “Joy and Spiritual 
Survival” I was sidetracked by my pet peeve of the “world is so 
much more wicked now than in the past and is getting more wicked” 
narrative which I find to be unhelpful, and is true in some cases but 
not in others. I did agree, however, that we can have joy even while 
being simultaneously stressed or disappointed or facing difficulties. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017 AT 12:50 AM 

Good day today. Went to Python in the morning and did exercises. 
Had a good discussion on joy in institute. Went to lab and did some 
plots of error rates for my project. (So much more to do: fixing the -1 
RT issue on MSS, correct vs all trials, etc.) I then went to office hours 
and made progress on 161. The TA endeavors to show us an O(n) 
algorithm to solve one of the problems, but then a student can up 
with a counterexample, leading to a Piazza post that we didn't have 
to do that part. Yay! Went to SAY, which was fun, read about religion 
and politics, voted in ASSU elections, and did the whole CME 193 
homework in about an hour and a half. 
In scripture study, I watched the Bible video on Christ in 
Gethsemane. I had trouble synthesizing a good angle from it, other 
than that charity is best demonstrated when we're in our extremely, 
when we love the person who it's hardest to treat kindly (like the 
sleeping apostles or healing the ear of the high priest's servant). Our 
finest hour typically comes in response to our darkest hour. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 50° PARTLY CLOUDY 

SATURDAY, APRIL 15, 2017 AT 1:04 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, I read through information for the 
new 110 assignment. And so it begins. Friday Forum was interesting. 
The speaker was a neuroscientist who'd founded a startup called 
Denali based on developing drugs to treat neuodegenerative 
diseases like Alzheimer's. He was also featured in an “I'm a 
Mormon” video a few years ago. We basically got a condensed 
version of his venture pitch with some religious ties thrown in. He's 
definitely a good salesperson, and had some interesting ideas (like 
the Mormon female lawyers, he eschewed the idea of work-life 
balance in favor of working at what you actually care about, inside 
and outside your job). In the afternoon, I went to 110, picked up a 
lovely letter and care package from Aunt Jennifer, and read 
American Grace, where I learned that overt politicking over the 
pulpit is rare, but getting socialized political opinions from politically 
homogeneous friends at church is common. (Due to sorting, church 
congregations tend to be echo chambers.) I also got a random email 
from GE saying they might have an internship opportunity, so I 
responded to them (hopefully not too late). I should contact Dante… 
I'll ask Kent how to go about it tomorrow. In the evening, I watched 
a funny SNL where Alex Baldwin played both Bill O'Reilly and 
Donald Trump. I went hot tubbing at Oak Creek with some Mormons 
for a little while, which was a relaxing break from file systems. Now, 
¡a dormir! 
In scripture study, I read about the Jaredites and watched some 
Bible videos on Christ's crucifixion. I've always wondered what 
motivated Pilate, besides a desire to be popular with those he 
governed. My big takeaway was that, sometimes God clears our 
path or resolves our problems in radical, unexpected ways, from 
parting the Red Sea and resurrecting the dead to putting someone 
in our path to help us. So, if you don't see a way out, don't despair. 
Heavenly Father may take you through a whole different dimension. 
Speaking of which, Hormazd randomly reached out to me about 
going to church this Sunday! So that was cool. I didn't think the 
invitation I gave last quarter had actually stuck. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 48° CLEAR 

SUNDAY, APRIL 16, 2017 AT 12:34 AM 

Good day today. Ran the dish, which as nice. Made progress on 110 
in the morning. Called my family. Read American Grace and learn 
that political opinions and civic engagement among religious people 
appear to be strongly mediated by religious social networks. In the 
evening, Kent and I went to Terrain, a hipster place in the Stanford 
mall with okay food (we did get Cream for dessert). He gave me a 
new jacket for my birthday 
(honestly, I didn't really like it. It was like someone had taken a 
greasy leather jacket and changed the fabric, styling it to look like a 
cross between a suitcoat and Mao's jacket. He had me try on a few 
others he'd ordered and then very kindly said that he'd look for 
another one. I feel bad not accepting his gift, but I honestly think I 
wouldn't ever wear it.) He didn't ask me about Angela, and I didn't 
know how to insert it into the conversation, so we didn't discuss it. 
There was one point where I was thinking about bringing it up, but 
my reverie was interrupted by Kent's travel plans to Europe. I 
finished the evening with more homework and by starting The 
Screwtape Letters for the book club Peter's organizing. 
In scripture study, I read a talk by Bonnie Oscarson on women rising 
up. I was inspired by the idea of having “the courage and vision to 
our Mother Eve.” After all, she transgressed a lower law to follow a 
higher one. I cannot help but think that such a stance may be 
applicable in loving our gay brothers and sisters, including women 
fully in the church, or a number of other issues. (Perhaps not the 
intended interpretation, but that's how read it.) 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, APRIL 16, 2017 AT 9:52 AM 

Overall this this week went well. I was productive in my schoolwork, 
although with lab, tutoring, and extracurriculars, somehow I don't 
think it's going to be a light quarter anymore. My prayers were meh. 
I tended to get really distracted so I can try: (1) praying on me knees 
at my bedside, (2) praying out loud, and (3) taking a few seconds 
before my prayer to collect my thoughts as to what I'm praying 
about or why I'm praying. My scripture study went reasonably well. (I 
actually feel like I got a decent amount of spiritual insight from 
reading The Screwtape Letters too.) I'd like to focus more on specific 
application over general principles. I'm still praying for and studying 
charity, although I don't feel like I've done that much to exercise it. 
Hmm, maybe something I can do during studies is memorize 1 
Corinthians 13. I'm glad I went got tubbing on Friday, and that Kent 
was nice enough to take me out to dinner (even if his birthday 
present required a bit of reevaluation…) I tried to say that I really 
appreciated his consideration, but I don't think I communicated my 

gratitude very well .. 
. I'm glad I was able to participate in the 
Easter Program, and that it went so well. I'm also grateful that 
Hormazd asked me about coming to church. That was definitely a 
blessing sown some time ago. I was also finally able to run the dish 
yesterday. Yay! One thing I'd like to do better is watch was I eat, 
especially Easter treats. I think I actually do pretty well with entrees 
(although I'd like to eat less meat), but I should avoid too many 
desserts. I should also do more as a SoFo and fellowshipper. I can go 
to a dorm event this week (or maybe forward info on the March for 
Science). I also would like to check in with Kea'a this week and see 
how her quarter is going. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, APRIL 16, 2017 AT 11:48 PM 

Good Easter today. In the morning, I watched some Bible videos on 
the resurrection and did a bit of lab stuff. Andrew had to leave for 
church early, so Peter, Connor, and I went with him and ended up 
getting recruited into the ward choir to sing in the Easter program 
that day. Eekers! Luckily the music wasn't too hard, and we did 
okay.m, all things considered. I just wish we'd had more time to 
practice. I really liked both the pieces we sang: “He Sent His Son” 
(one of my favorite Primary songs) and “Behold the Wounds in 
Jesus' Hands”, which had a fun bass part. Hormazd came for the 
Easter program, (which was all musical numbers, with some narration 
by Brother Johnson.) He also stayed for the longer longer, chatted 
with Peter and Connor, and seemed to generally enjoy the services. 
So, I'm glad he asked me about coming. In the evening, I went with 
Peter to our first book club meeting, where we discussed the 
beginning of The Screwtape Letters. Or rather, I should say, we 
began by discussing The Screwtape Letters and then diverged into 
discussing justice and how avid can be just when life is so unfair, 
what truth is and if it's useful to approach things from a binary truth 
perspective, and other such matters. People really opened up, with 
Brickelle talking about how she found relief from anxiety through 
service (but then wondered if her motives for serving were impure) 
and Jeff talking about going home early from his mission due to 
anxiety and depression. I did not share any deep personal stories 
(maybe next time) but I talked about psychology research. Yay! We'd 
planned to meet for 45 minutes and ended up talking for two hours. 
So, definitely successful. Speaking of success, after I fixed the 
compile errors on my 110 assignment, the second half worked 
almost the first time I tried it. Miracles are real. 
In scripture study, I was particularly moved by the video of Thomas 
seeing the Lord, touching the wounds in His palms and thrusting his 
hand into His side. It suggests to me that, while now we “see 
through a glass darkly” we can come to “know even as we are 
known.” In some future day, we will thrust our hand into His side, but 
I also believe that we can feel His hand in our lives and by this come 
to know Him as well as Thomas did. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° SHOWERS NEARBY 

TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017 AT 12:19 AM 

Good day today. Went to 161 recitation section in the morning, 
which was useful. Emailed Michael Gottlieb about the status of my 
application and he said he'd get back to me. Emailed Dante and he 
said there were opportunities at Juntos, if I wanted them. Sent off an 
application to GE's internship program. So, it seems like I still have 
good options. As always, I just wish the search were over. Discussed 
politics and religion in 117, and the substitution method in 161. 
Watched 110 in the evening, where Jerry went over the execvc call. 
Kent came over for dinner at Ricker in an effort to use up his meals, 
and we did a little planning for the March for Science on Saturday. I 
should send out an email to the dorm to see if anyone else wants to 
go… At FHE, we played card games, including one Catherine Lyman 
showed us called 24, where you lay out four cards and try to 
determine a sequence of mathematical operations you can form on 
them to get w 

24. I used the rather dubious method of relying on 4! to great effect. 
Went to Habla, but had no one to tutor, so I chatted a bit before 
leaving and doing some lab data analysis. 
In scripture study, I was exceedingly tired for reasons I don't fully 
understand. My biggest takeaway was a reminder hat the winds of 
life often blow us where we need to go, as with the Jaredite barges. 
That ties into the “spiritual dryness as growth” narrative from 
Chapter 8 of The Screwtape Letters. 
554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017 AT 12:11 AM 

Good day today. Went to Python in the morning and wrote a Markov 
chain random text program in about 20 minutes and as many lines of 
code (a similar style to the problem that forms an entire CS 106B 
assignment). In institute, we discussed Bonnie Oscarson and the 
need for women's liberation in the church. I tutored Michal for about 
an hour and a half going over first-order logic, including one in-
depth example with the power set. In the afternoon, I spotted away 
at 161, writing much but making little progress. (I felt a bit of 
burnout to be honest. I guess since I didn't feel burned out at the 
end of last quarter, the effect was just delayed.) I also did some 
reading for 117 and read some of The Screwtape Letters. Did some 
Python class and a bit of lab work. 
In scripture study, I read my Patriarchal blessing (and compiled 
previous notes about it). I'll comb through it in greater depth 
tomorrow, but the biggest impression I had was that part of my duty 
in the tribe of Ephraim of building up the church is to make it a more 
welcoming place for our gay and lesbian brothers and sisters. So, I 
hope so can have the “courage and vision of Mother Eve” as Sister 
Oscarson quotes Elder Nelson, in doing so. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 2017 AT 12:04 AM 

Happy birthday to me. A busy yet fairly uneventful day. Went to lab 
in the morning and worked on plotting errors and filtering. Had a 
brief lunch at Olives, went to 117, then 161, then 110 Section, which 
was a lot. After a quick dinner, Kent came over and we called 
Mooples, opened my presents, and had cake. Mostly books and a 
few running things. Tuned up my 110 homework to use an 
interactive, rather than recursive solution. Went to Habla and 
tutored. Tried unsuccessfully to make progress on 161. Well, there's 
always tomorrow. 
In scripture study, I finished reading my Patriarchal blessing and 
started “If he had known me.” Just as Christ came to know us 
though empathy by experiencing he Atonement, we come to know 
Him through empathy by becoming like Him and feeling as He does 
toward our brothers and sisters. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° PARTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 2017 AT 1:03 AM 

Good day today. It is late. I am tired. Three word sentences. Went to 
Python. Institute was good. Progress in lab. I ate cake. LDSSA 
Birthday Dinner. So much dessert. Read in SAY. 161 with Zac. 
Problems so hard. Wrestle very much. Glad it's Friday. Feel so busy. 
In scripture study and institute, we discussed “If Ye Had Known Me” 
by Elder Bed we, and the importance of self-awareness to recognize 
when we're implicitly excepting ourselves from God's blessings (or 
commandments) or when we're myopic. This can be cultivated 
through meditation, looking in the mirror, and simply remembering 
our identity as sons and daughters of God. (See Moses 1.) 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 2017 AT 12:08 AM 


Good day today. Discovered that I didn't have a scan this morning, 
which gave me time to polish my 161. Went to FriFo, and where 
Sarah Covert spoke about our relationships with others, with points 
about our thoughts, feelings, and actions. She mentioned always 
interpreting how others treat us and what they say to us in the best 
possible light. (Like the Naive Bayes assumption, this is an 
assumption that is almost assuredly wrong, but still yields good 
results and is relatively robust.) She mentioned Rogerian 
unconditional positive regard with respect to true listening. I've 
always assumed that I'm a good listener because I'm an introvert 
and thus don't talk much, but it became clear to me today that 
listening is much more than that. (So I'm probably a meh listener.) In 
fact, I'm not very good at absorbing what people say. I should just 
get over myself, stop trying to think of the next witty thing to say, 
and instead just actually listen and understand. If I don't know what 
to say, repeat back what they said and ask a question. Anyway, 
enough of the self-critique. Also, she was the third person of the 
“eminent successful professionals” I've heard from recently who 
basically said, “work-life balance is not a useful model. Instead, 
consider the model of allocation: I have X hours in the day and I'm 
going to allocate them to what's important to me, which includes 
carving out on-work time.” Anyway, after that, I went to 110 and 
learned about forking and reaping children, which will be useful for 
this next assignment, FactorFarm, which Zac says is a doozie. After 
class, I tutored Michael a bit and was reminded of injective and 
surjective functions, strict orders and equivalence relations. I 
returned to the dorm to discover that someone had stolen my 
birthday cake. I figured it was only a matter of time. It's probably all 
for the best, so I don't blow up like a balloon and die of diabetes. In 
the evening, I went with my hall to dinner at Darbar, a tasty Indian 
restaurant in Palo Alto, which was fun. Now, robbed. Tomorrow, we 
march. For science. 
In scripture study, I read about the Jaredite society devolving into 
factional warfare. Apparently, according to The Better Angels of Our 
Nature, regicide was quite common in medieval and early modern 
Europe as well (sometimes as high as 1 in 8 monarchs were killed). 
Anyway, I pondered why it's important to remember the great things 
God has done for us. I think it cultivates a sense of humility, that we 
really haven't “earned” what we have, and perspective, since we 
recognize how our ancestors' actions have trickled down to affect us. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, APRIL 23, 2017 AT 12:50 AM 


For science! 

The facts are coming! The facts are coming! 

What do we want? Evidence-based science! When do we want it? 
After peer review! 

So yes, Kent and I marched for science today (briefly: I woke up, dan 
the dish, had a quick quiche picnic with him, and we drove to the 
Palo Alto Caltrain station and took it to SF). We arrived in time to 
hear Adam Savage speak (although couldn't see him due to crowds), 
and marched for about two hours down market street, with around 
15,000 other protestors, including a number of witty signs. The one 
above says it all. This was the first protest that either Kent or I had 
been to. (Pride is more of a parade, Kent says.) if you'd told me a 
year ago that I'd be marching for science, or even that it would be 
necessary to March for science, I would've thoughts you were crazy. 
It did feel good to get together with other concerned citizens and 
do something more than wringing my hands (even if that something 
was just walking). It slightly Increased my faith in humanity. Anyway, 
after the March, we went over to SF MOMA and had lunch, looked 
at disturbed galumphing humans, deep dark postwar German 
artwork (me likely), and the Matisse/Diebenkorn collection, which 
consisted of nice paintings by Matisse side by side with 
Diebenkorn's somewhat related/imitation (?) work, which, in the 
words of Kentre, looked like he'd taken the Matisse and 
“smooshified” it. I then parted ways with Kent, took the Caltrain 
back to PA, drove to Stanford, had dinner, and did 110. In the 
evening, I went to a religious discussion Hormazd hosted for his on-
call. We had a diverse group, as pretty much everyone was of a 
different faith (Muslim, Zoroastrian, Mormon, Evangelical Christian, 
Hindu, and Atheist). We had a good conversation, and the atheist 
asked really insightful questions, like “If I'm doing good, then why 
do I need to believe in God?” (although the Evangelical sounded 
rather cray.) He was Calvinist, so all that TULIP jazz (total depravity, 
unconditional salvation, etc.) and something of a biblical apologist. 
Anyway, interesting discussion. 
In scripture study, I read a talk on Christ being the master healer. 
Perhaps that's the answer to my atheist friend's question. Asking 
“Why believe in God?” Is sort of like asking “Why believe in my 
parents?” It doesn't really matter whether you believe in them, they 
still care about you, and they're simply always there. However, there 
are things hey can do for you only if you ask, which, of course, 
requires belief. 

4–16 MARKET ST, SAN FRANCISCO, CA, UNITED STATES • 53° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, APRIL 23, 2017 AT 9:55 AM 

Let's see… this week was good overall. I was quite busy, but I did 
keep up the fundamentals: prayer and scripture study. My prayers 
are okay, still a little wandering. I'm going to try to take a few 
seconds to think about what I'll say before I begin praying this week. 
I went to hall dinner and Hormazd's on-call, both of which were fun, 
and was able to connect with people I don't know as well. I'll sign up 
for a SoFo activity tonight, maybe another FroSoCook… I should be 
doing more as a fellowshipper. There, I just sent out a call for a 
meeting. I'd like to do more to reach out to people personally, but 
I'm not sure what an effective way of going about it would be. Bring 
food? Go to their sports games? I dunno. Oh yes, and I should also 
remind Peter to set up home teaching. I'm glad Kent was willing to 
come with me to the March for Science (and take me to MOMA and 
pay for lonche). I'd like to follow up on the March to see what else I 
can to to support science funding and communication. Besides that, 
I anticipate that this week is going to be very busy, so I'm going to 
have to cut down on any nonessential activities. That's about it… 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY SUNNY 

SUNDAY, APRIL 23, 2017 AT 11:56 PM 

Good Sabbath today. Went to church, where there were some good 
talks and a lesson on consecration, which I don't feel like we talk 
about much given that endowed members are under a covenant 
obligation to do it. I for one should certainly think of myself as more 
of a steward and less of a careful saver building up my nest egg. In 
the immortal words of Barack Obama, “If you have a business, you 
didn't build that.” (Out of context, yes, I know.) After church, I called 
my family. Apparently they were trying to ask Kent about Angela 
while he was on the call alone. (I don't know why they just didn't ask 
me. Maybe because the last time I discussed going on a date with 
them, they creepily looked up the person I was dating online…) 
Anyway, so as the family call was going on, I was running a parallel 
conversation texting Kent about this so he could feed correct 
information to the Mooples. I don't know why it possessed them to 
ask now, after things have been over for a while, but, as Kent said 
“Do you think I have a window into the mind of the Moodre!?” 
Anyway, after that I had family dinner with the LDSSA, which was fun. 
Chris Moffit literally makes me laugh until I cry every time I talk with 
him. I'm going to miss him when he goes on his mission. I also 
worked on 110 and got trace working. Yay! Peter, Connor, Andrew, 
and I submitted our housing draw application for next year, 
prioritizing two room doubles in Norcliffe or Meier, the two new Lag 
dorms. 
In scripture study, I learned that I should compliment others more. I 
generally have good thoughts about other people, I'm just not good 
at saying them. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

TUESDAY, APRIL 25, 2017 AT 12:36 AM 

Good day. 161 117 161 110. Lunch with Effie, by coincidence. 
Dinner with Kent. Fun FHE where we made collaborative stories. 
Book club was interesting, we talked about humility, gluttony, and 
whether or not it makes sense to believe in the devil. 
In scripture study, I was tired. I gave a spiritual thought in FHE on 
remembering our eternal identity as a grounding. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2017 AT 12:10 AM 

Good day today. Went to Python in the morning and learned about 
Pandas. Wow, that sentence would make no sense if you didn't know 
what I was talking about. Briefly met up with Kent to take a picture 
to send Madre a Mother's Day card (in matching clothes, no less). In 
institute, we watched a women's panel, which was cool. Tutored 
Michael on injective and surjective functions. Made some progress in 
161 and 117. Did lab data analysis on my data analysis's exclusion 
function. 
In scripture study, I was super tired and could barely type an 
incoherent note. I wondered what causes us to “come to ourselves” 
as the prodigal son did, or the Jaredites in famine. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 2017 AT 12:40 AM 

Good day today. Went to lab in the morning and made progress 
figuring out the differences between my subject exclusion code and 
Ian's. The good news is they're broadly similar, although there are 
some quibbles here and there. I went to 117, agreed we discussed 
the election, 161, where we talked about hashing, and 110 section, 
where we went through a deep parallel mergesort example. I 
worked on 161 and a bit of 110. I went to a surprise birthday party 
for Amanda and her two roommates who were all having birthdays, 
which was fun. I remember feeling bad about skipping Angela's 
party last year for work, so I figured I'd mend my ways. Speaking of 
work, the section lead application is due tomorrow (technically, 
today). I know I should apply. You know, coding and teaching 
experience, good social network, money. I'm just not feeling it. First 
of all, I've been rather too busy to work on the app at all, which is 
extensive. I could do it tomorrow of course. I shouldn't let the 
application deter me. But I just have no desire to section lead right 
now except for that of selfish gain. Maybe it's because I'm tired and 
busy, but I just don't want to do it. I suppose I could do it anyway, 
and of course my desires could change, but doing work I don't want 
to do just to get ahead perhaps is not the wisest course. I'd have to 
give up working in my lab. Of course, section leading offers more 
relevant experience and networks to my major… I could theoretically 
defer the decision to next quarter, but I'be already done that, and 
it's easy to kick the can down the road until the point becomes 
moot. Bottom line: I know there are positive benefits, but I have no 
intrinsic desire to do it right now. I already feel like I'm trying to do 
too much. I'm going to sleep now. But first, I'll pray about it. 
In scripture study, I reread President Uchtdorf's first Presidency 
message (while making last-minute changes to my lab analysis code). 
I reevaluated how faith is acting on belief even when that belief is 
not strong. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 59° MOSTLY CLOUDY 

FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 2017 AT 12:16 AM 

Good day today. Python in the morning with a blazing fast 
introduction to machine learning. Fun institute, we talked about 
judging and Les Mis. Made progress in lab. Or rather, I discovered a 
discrepancy in subject exclusion that led Ian to discover an error in 
his code. So I guess that's progress. Went to 161 Office Hours and 
also made progress there, and learned that the PSet is getting 
pushed back to Monday. Yay! Useful extra time. (Although technically 
it only gives me more time in the relative, not absolute sense, as the 
new PSet will come out as normal.) Made progress on FactorFarm. 
Now I just need to get the little childres to dismiss when I'm done 
with them. I told Kent that it's like some deranged version of Go 
Away, Big Green Monster: 

“Go away gaping open input file” 
“Go away useless SIGCHLD handler” 
“Go away terminated child worker” 
“GO AWAY BIG GREEN FACTOR FARM!” 

But I have not yet finished that part. Also went to SAY, where we 
finished choosing all the entries we'd accept in a whirlwind tour (with 
a bit of parallelism, as we gave just one person the final say (pun 
intended) on marginal stories). 
So the watchword is progress, my boy. Always progress! Onward and 
upward! 
In scripture study, I read the talk “The Righteous Judge” by Lynn 
Robbins, which was a bit wandering. I liked the point that to chasten 
is to purify. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 57° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SATURDAY, APRIL 29, 2017 AT 12:57 AM 

Good day today. Busy. Scanned with Ian from 9:00 am to noon. 
Went to FriFo, where the speaker discussed “essentialism” or the 
doctrine of accomplishing more by doing less. He had some really 
interesting and applicable points, although I would have liked to see 
some data to back them up. (For example, he said some things hat I 
doubt, like the hypothesis that success breeds failure. This seems to 
contradict the rich-get richer phenomenon that produces a power 
law distribution of wealth.) After that I went to staff the LDSSA table 
at he Activities Fair (since the campus is overrun with ProFros for 
admit weekend). The table next to us was for Grace Christian 
ministries, and the guy next to me (grad student maybe?) struck up a 
conversation trying to bash with me the whole time I was there. He 
was mostly concerned with the doctrine that we can become like 
God, and if that implicates polytheism. I was impressed how well he 
knew his stuff. (He even correctly distinguished that Lorenzo Snow, 
not Joseph Smith said, “As man is God once was, as God is, man 
may become.”) Still, he mostly wanted to convince me that I'd been 
led away by a false prophet (which is, of course, the logical thing to 
believe about Mormons if you're not a Mormon). But, he didn't really 
say anything I hadn't heard before. I answered his questions as 
honestly and kindly as I could, reflecting afterward that it was, once 
again, a unique opportunity for building charity. Not a terribly 
enlightening conversation, but interesting to reflect on. Went to 110, 
where we talked about threads and I may have taken a nap. I went to 
Earthfest for a little bit, since Kira invited me, and I ate their tasty 
food. Tutored Michael, then ran off to home teach Andrew with 
Peter. He's such a solid guy. I then worked on various forms of 
homework until midnight when Kira came by to chat with me and 
Peter. (Probably mostly Peter, TBH, but I joined the conversation 
too.) She's lonely. I think she wants both more friends (and more 
Mormon friends?) and a boyfriend. I'm not sure of the best way to 
help her. Somehow I think she wouldn't find me to be an enjoyable 
boyfriend. As for friendship, I don't know what sort of friends she 
wants. (Probably cool people who like to party, which isn't me.) 
Hmm… I'll have to think more about what I can do for her. 
In scripture study, I read about the Jaredites and a cycle of wicked 
and righteous kings, wondering how the goodness of a leader 
relates to the goodness of their followers. This does not bode well 
for America. 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, APRIL 30, 2017 AT 12:28 AM 

Good day today. Scanned in the morning with Patrick without a 
hitch. (Or rather, without any devastating hitches.) Had lovely brunch 
at Wilbur (my first time this academic year, I think. Ricker being open 
seven days a week made me lazy). Did homework, reading, 161, 

110. Actually didn't make terribly much progress with 161… This 
week I'll start studying for the week 6 midterms for both of those 
classes. I also took a nap (somewhat involuntarily as I was doing 
reading) and played some Crusader Kings II. I started up a game as 
the petty king of Mumu. Through marriage, money, and diplomacy, I 
formed an alliance with the somewhat more powerful Welsh state of 
Gwynned, then called in their army to help me incorporate some 
neighbors into my kingdom, effectively doubling its size (from two 
provinces to four). One day, perhaps my grandson will be king of 
Ireland. If we abolish gavelkind succession… Anyway, in more 
important news, Mooples have decided that Hamilton is a “Must 
see” after seeing it in Chicago, so they generously subsidized tickets 
for me and Kent to go!!! We'll be seeing it in two weeks (right after 
my midterms are over). I'm so excited! 
In scripture study, I learned about prayer. I was rather distracted.I 
thought one interés idea was that we take the name of God in vain 
when our prayers are repetitive. 
554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

SUNDAY, APRIL 30, 2017 AT 9:51 AM 

Let's see, this week was busy, as usual. I did have a bit of time to 
play on Saturday evening, which I think was a welcome and 
appropriate break, but I doubt I'll do so this coming week, as I'll 
need to focus on preparing for my midterms. (I don't feel like I've 
really mastered 161 yet, so I'll have to do readings and crank out 
problems for that.) I'm glad we were able to meet as a 
Fellowshipping Committee, help staff the Activities Fair table, and 
make plans to more consistently visit people (which we'll do today 
starting with JoMo). I'm glad I went to Amanda's surprise birthday 
party on Wednesday. It was nice to take a break and be with people 
(although I did end up missing Habla). I'm also glad I supported Kira 
by going out to Earthfest. It definitely seems like she's lonely, 
coming back from her mission in the middle of the year, not sure 
how to integrate into the Mormon community. I don't know exactly 
how I can help her, aside from trying to be a good friend (whatever 
that means). I'll try to reach out more to her this coming week. Let's 
see. I thought my prayer was rather poor this week. I lot of tiredness 
and not a lot of real intent. If I feel I need to, I can do a little wake-up 
exercises or getting things ready before praying. Scripture study was 
average. Some days I felt like I had good questions, others I didn't. 
One concrete thing is can do is being more consistent with my midweek 
check in. Besides that, I've made good progress in lab and my 
academic endeavors, and am looking forward to this Juntos 
meeting. Onward! 

554 GOVERNORS AVE, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 63° MOSTLY SUNNY 