THURSDAY, DECEMBER 22, 2016 AT 11:27 PM 

Good day today. We boarded a train for Dresden in the morning 
after much freakifying and having to walk through half of the train to 
get to our compartment. After a two hour ride, we arrived and 
caught a cab to the Hotel Suitess. We then went on a walking tour of 
the old town of Dresden (almost entirely rebuilt from its 1945 
bombing.), which is smallish, but charming. We went on a walking 
tour where we learned about Albert the Strong, elector of Saxony, 
who was obsessed with becoming a king, and so bribed and 
finagled his way into becoming King of Poland after converting to 
Catholicism. This offended the Lutherans, so he built the 
Frauenkirche for them in Dresden. That offended the Catholics, so 
he built a big old church for them too. After the tour, we visited the 
Frauenkirche, which was very pastel, a nice change from the Gothic 
caves in Nuremberg. Madre, Kent, and I also ascended to the top. 
We then went to a lovely sipping chocolate, then visited the biggest 
Christmas market in Dresden, where we procured stollen and other 
food items. After returning to the hotel for a nappyboo, we went to 
dinner at a local German place. (The square nearby was full of 
Christmas performers.) We then went to see “Tales of Hoffman,” a 
deranged opera about a man falling in love with various people. 
There were eyeballs falling from the sky… Kentre liked it, I wished it 
had a more comprehensible plot. 
Christmas Markets: 4 
Visits: 5 

DRESDEN, DRESDEN, GERMANY

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 24, 2016 AT 1:55 AM 

Good day today. In the morning, we boarded a train from Dresden 
to Berlin, then went to the Adina Apartments Hotel to unpack. We 
picked up some groceries for lunch on Christmas Day, and 
attempted to visit one Christmas market, but it was closed, so we 
headed to another where we got greasy brats, schneeball 2.0, 
caramels, waffles, and other treats. After gorging ourselves, we went 
back to the hotel and took a rest. Since Christmas is observed on the 
24th in Germany, there wasn't a whole lot that was open. We did 
attempt to go to services at Berliner Dom, but the like was too long. 
Likewise for Marienkirche. Then we headed to dinner, which was a 
nice thee-course meal with venison, goose, and three kinds of 
desserts. Unfortunately, it was also a three hour epic, and both Kent 
and I bobbed heavily during it. We'd entertained notions of going to 
a mass later, maybe even at midnight, but we're so exhausted by the 
end that went straight back to the hotel, and Kent and I fell into our 
beds without even changing our clothes, awakening around 2:00 
a.m. to get into our PJs. 
Christmas Markets: 1 (plus one attempted visit) 
Visits: 1 

BERLIN, BERLIN, GERMANY

SUNDAY, DECEMBER 25, 2016 AT 2:09 PM 

Merry Christmas! It was a very unique Christmas Day. Kent and I 
woke up around 5:40 am, I played Terraria and he watched Netflix, 
then we had some hot chocolate and stollen around 7:00. When 
Madre roustified herself, we all got dressed and the three of us went 
to protestant Christmas services at Berliner Dom, where there was 
English translation. After that, we made sandwiches in our apartment 
for lunch, then took a rest. After our rest, we went to go sightsee, 
staring with the Memorial for the Murdered Jews of Europe. (I 
thought it rather strange that we're seeing it on Christmas.) We then 
walked over to the Brandenburg Gate, which we perused, and got 
sucked into a tourist trap museum when we were trying to kill time 
before going to the Reichstag. It had one room with a 20 minute 
movie that played on repeat. At least the movie was good. After 
that, we ascended the glass dome of the Reichstag, with a creepy 
audio guide that could sense exactly where you were. We then 
marched over to a Christmas market, which we perished, but it was 
quite chilly, so we crashed in a nearby Starbucks to regain our 
strength. We had dinner reservations at the Ritz at Pottsdammer 
Platz, where I enjoyed lovely lamb three ways. After dinner, we went 
to a lovely concert of Tchaikovsky, Rachmaninov, and Mendelssohn, 
which was very enjoyable, although Kentre and I may have been a 
little sleepy. (It was our bobbing time, what can you do?) I 
particularly liked Tchaikovsky's Romeo and Julieta, and the concert 
closed, fittingly, with the Dance of the Sugar Plums from the 
Nutcracker. 
Christmas Markets: 1 
Visits: 1 

BERLIN, BERLIN, GERMANY

MONDAY, DECEMBER 26, 2016 AT 1:26 AM 

Good day today. Filled with museums. In the morning, we went to 
the Pergammon Museum, on Museum Island, which contains Greek, 
Egyptian, and Near/Middle East antiquities. Right when you walk in, 
there's a stunning reconstruction of the Ishtar Gate of Babylon, 
towering in blue-glazed brick and covered with lions and chimeras. 
It's actually only the smaller, outer gate, so the real deal must have 
been even more impressive. When you walk through the gate, on 
the other side is a reconstruction of a Greek market gate, with fluted 
columns and statues, which is also quite impressive. We explored the 
first floor pretty throughly, then went to the second floor, which had 
Islamic art, and was much less interesting. We the. Went over to the 
Neue Museum next door, where we got lunch, and went at the 
Kentre pace, rubbing to the farthest corner of the museum to 
examine a millennia-old gold hat which apparently proved that the 
ancients had calculated the ratio of solar to lunar years (even though 
they were pre-literate.) We saw the mask of Nefertiti, which was 
indeed very lifelike. After perusing some sarcophagi and other 
things, we left the museum and went to the nearby DDR Museum 
about East Germany. It was quite crowded and maze-like, but did a 
very thorough job of discussing aspects of life there, from the quirks 
of the command economy (dirt cheap foodstuffs but constant 
shortages due to price controls) to sports, and media. After that, we 
took a break at the hotel, then headed to Friedrich Wilhelm church 
for an organ vespers. Personally, I think all organ music starts 
sounding the same after a while (andI may have bobbified 
somewhat), but the church did have some interesting artifacts, like a 
Madonna and Child drawn by a German solider in the back of a 
Soviet map in Stalingrad in 1942. After the service, we walked 
through the adjacent Christmas market, on our way to a tapas place 
for dinner. 
Christmas Markets: 1 
Visits: 1 

BERLIN, BERLIN, GERMANY

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 27, 2016 AT 12:58 AM 


Good day today. It was our last full day in Berlin, which we filled with 
museums. We went first to the Topography of Terror, which discusses 
the Nazi police state run by the SA, SS, SD,, and Gestapo. Among 
pictures, descriptions, contemporary quotes and comments from 
historians, they also had excerpts from primary documents, which I 
thought were most revealing. For example, they had a memo to the 
police saying that they were preparing to arrest 20,000 to 30,000 
Jews (as part of Kristalnacht). After that, we had a snack of cake at 
the museum, then walked over to the Jewish Museum, with a brief 
stop for pictures at Checkpoint Charlie. In the Jewish Museum, we 
first explored the wonky architecture with “voided voids” and stairs 
to nowhere. Then, we took a bathroom break. But Padre did not 
emerge from the bathroom. Finally, we went in there, but all the 
stalls were empty and there was no Padre! It turns out that he had 
taken the elevator and wandered over to the 1933 section, leaving 
the rest of us very bumfuzzled. After retrieving him, we rushed 
through most of 1000 years of Jewish history in Germany and 
lingered more in the post 1900s sections. After that, we grabbed a 
late lunch (around 2:30) at the museum cafe, then bravely went off to 
the German History Museum. There, Madre, Padre, and Kentre got 
sucked into a movie which ended up being 45 minutes long. 
Meanwhile, U wandered the top floor, looking at artifacts form the 
Thirty Years War, paintings of Louis XIV, Napoleón, and the Franco-
Prussian War, I arrived at the bust of my hero Bismarck (shown 
above), thus completing all I needed to see in the museum, I did 
peruse WWI, and then we all went together down to the first floor 
and looked through history from 1925 and onward, although it kind 
of seemed like a rehash of the Topography of Terror and the DDR 
Museum. After that, we returned to our hotel very briefly, then had 
dinner at the top of the TV Tower, which afforded a stunning view of 
Berlin at night, but had only mediocre food. After that, we returned 
to our hotel and packed. 
In scripture study, I learned that it was internal dissensions, rather 
than external pressures that led to the greatest danger to the 
Nephite nation. Similarly, we should be most vigilant against the evil 
that is in ourselves. 
Christmas Markets: 0 
Visits: 0 

BERLIN, BERLIN, GERMANY • 45° MOSTLY CLOUDY 