June 2015 

SATURDAY, JUNE 13, 2015 AT 12:00 PM 


A busy day today. I'm actually writing this tomorrow, on Sunday 
because I was too tired last night. I also just downloaded this app 
this morning. I hope I can use it to journal nightly. Maybe I can also 
have it ask me if I prayed and what I learned in scripture study. I'll 
figure that out later though. Anyway, today was quite busy, as I had 
to finish packing for Solana Beach, unpack my missionary stuff, try to 
forward my emails, and the fly to San Diego. But who said post-
mission life would be a vacation? At least I'm chipping away at my 
to-do list from 14 to 7 items. This whole Comcast email thing not 
working is quite a hassle. However, I have forwarded some of my 
mission emails and I finished a draft of my talk on the plane. Now I 
just have to write my other talk, get my thoughts together for the 
Blake family testimony meeting, prepare my third hour lesson for the 
28th, and eventually have something cogent to say when I report to 
the high council on the 16th. So, there will be much pontification by 
me in the coming days. Anyway, each night I want to report on what 
I learned in scripture study, so today I was impressed that my 
personal righteousness can reduce the power of Satan both 
personally and in the whole world. This contrasts with the results 
when we follow the natural man and Satan binds us. So, that's the 
day in a nutshell. Breakfast time. 

535 S HIGHWAY 101, SOLANA BEACH, CA, UNITED STATES • 64° CLOUDY 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2015 AT 10:17 PM 

A good day today. It started with waking up and breakfast at the 
retreat, then we had a final rehearsal. We did learn a lot, so I hope to 
conserve that with practice, even if it's just 15 minutes a day. There 
are some sections I really still need to learn. We ended early, which 
was the first in a stream of tender mercies helping me get to church. 
I didn't think we'd get back before sacrament meeting started, so I 
hadn't contacted anyone about a ride (I had planned on biking if I 
was late.) I texted a few people but they were busy, so I changed 
into my white shirt and tie and saddled up on my bike. I'd hardly left 
FroSoCo however then who should I pull in front of but Brigg, who 
happened to have a free car and ended up giving me a ride to 
church! It was definitely a little miracle for a little act of faith. We 
discussed the Sabbath in Freshman Sunday school, and after getting 
the elephant in the room that sometimes it's just not feasible not to 
do homework on Sunday out of the way, we talked about various 
strategies to keep the Sabbath different, from remembering why 
we're working (the glory of God is intelligence, not grade grubbing) 
to wearing church clothes all day. I haven't progressed to that level 
yet, although I do try to wear something a little nicer on Sunday. 
After church, I Skyped with Mom, Dad, and Kent, then did an Econ 
study group session. I wrote some people (including Kira and Mrs. I) 
and polished some of my work. Hopefully with a good night's sleep, 
all will be in order for tomorrow! 
In scripture study I looked for my patriarchal blessing but couldn't 
find it… I also read about Abraham being commanded to sacrifice 
his son Isaac. I saw a parallel between Abraham going to the end of 
his faith and the little extra faith it took me to start biking before the 
Lord intervened and helped out in both instances. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 61° MOSTLY CLEAR 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 AT 11:25 PM 

Late. I'll be short. Good day. Goodnight. 

Just kidding. After a librarian's got it to PWR in the morning to talk 
about research, I had Chorale practice around noon, which went 
fairly well, although we continue to move at a rapid pace. Today we 
started singing songs with only a starting note from someone with 
perfect pitch (every Chamber Choir's gotta have one). 106A went 
well, and we got our first big assignment: making Breakout. That 
should be fun (famous last words, heh heh heh). In the evening I 
went to a master class with this professional baritone who coached 
some student singers (baritones) through their solo songs. He did a 
very good job but the fuzzy freakification of the whole situation just 
cemented my desire not to be a professional singer. Not my kind of 
gig. I also went to an LDSSA FHE BBQ. (yeah, you want more 
acronyms? Bring it on! Or should I say, BIO? Wait… that doesn't 
work.) Afterwards I went to Habla, which lightened my spirits. Now I 
must bed. 
In scripture study I learned more about Abraham and his servant 
meeting Rebekah. It seems kind of arbitrary that the servant just 
prays for the woman who gives his camels water to be Isaac's wife 
until you realize that he had already exercises significant faith by 
traveling to this city and praying. Additionally, he didn't wait for 
women to come to him but sought them out and talked to them, no 
doubt appraising their virtues. Obviously charity would figure big in 
anyone who broke their back bringing gallons and gallons of water 
to some stranger's camels. The only thing that the servant couldn't 
know is if the woman were related enough to Isaac to make her 
marriageable, which the Lord helped out with. Continuing the theme 
from yesterday, we sometimes take a few steps into the dark before 
we perceive God's light. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 68° MOSTLY CLEAR 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 AT 10:48 PM 


A good day today. I did my data visualization presentation in my 
IntroSem, which relied on simplicity for avoiding errors and making it 
easy to understand. It got the job done though. In institute we 
discussed how Rebekah was actually acting on revelation by 
conniving to get Jacob the birthright instead of Esau. I then went to 
Econ and we discussed oligopolies. Somehow I got ahead in both 
my Econ and CS readings, but I'm not complaining, I'll just keep on 
trucking. I also got a haircut, as demonstrated by my picture. At $27, 
it was highway robbery, but less robbery than Kent's hair stylist, who 
charges $40. Give me the $8 haircut, I say! Or at least $15… Well, 
BOTM will pay for it. I then chugged away at work. Dinner was more 
delicious than usual: beef barbacoa, strawberry feta salad, garlic 
bread, and a churro. 
In scripture study I read about the aforementioned Rebekah incident. 
Since I already talked about that, I will discuss my Ponderize 
scripture, Matthew 6:33 (I'm memorizing it in Spanish). With so many 
things to seek at Stanford, I think it's important to remember that 
grades, a social life, or having fun really come secondary to the 
kingdom of God, whatever that means specifically for me in my day, 
like attending institute or taking the time to pray. 

222–288 SANTA TERESA ST, STANFORD, CA, UNITED STATES • 72° MOSTLY CLEAR 